*Inspects ruins of Maiduguri Monday Market President Muhammadu Buhari has called for continued collaboration between the Ministry of Power and relevant agencies with the Nigerian National Petroleum Ltd. (NNPCL) to ensure access to affordable electricity. The President gave this directive on Thursday when he inauguration of the 50-Megawatt Maiduguri Emergency Power Plant (MEPP) project site in Borno. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 50-Megawatt gas-fired power plant was built by the Federal Government through the NNPCL in collaboration with Borno State Government. The Maiduguri Emergency Power Project is part of an incremental 4,000MW of power generating assets that this administration embarked upon to improve national power supply and stimulate economic growth. He said the aggressive project strategy deployed to complete the project on schedule was a reflection of the Federal Government sensitivities in easing the plight of Nigerians, especially those recovering from the adverse impact of the insurgency in the North-East region. Buhari said over the past few years, insurgents had attacked power supply lines along Maiduguri-Damaturu and Maiduguri-Damboa-Biu roads leading to acute power supply shortages to the city of Maiduguri and its environs. This, he said, had crippled economic activities in the region. NAN recalls that two major incidences of such unfortunate attacks were the destruction of three towers of electricity power lines along Damaturu–Maiduguri Road by the insurgents on Jan. 25 and March 27, 2021. President Buhari in April 2021, directed the management of the NNPC Ltd., to restore power supply to Maiduguri and its environs. Buhari, while inaugurating the project commended the NNPCL on its purposeful response, following his directive to ensure the immediate restoration of reliable power supply to Maiduguri within the shortest possible time. “I want to reassure Nigerians of the Federal Government’s resolve to continue to implement programmes, particularly in the power sector, that will deepen domestic gas utilisation, expand national power generation capacity, revitalise industries and create multiple jobs for economic growth. “Therefore, today, I have the honour to inaugurate another power plant that is aimed at improving electricity supply to Nigerian homes- an integral part of the huge successes being recorded by the Presidential Power Initiative. “I would like to direct the Ministry of Power and other relevant agencies namely, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc, Transmission Company of Nigeria, etc to continue to collaborate with the NNPC Ltd to ensure access to affordable electricity. “I commend NNPC Ltd, the government and people of Borno State for this feat. I do hope that the undaunting spirit of the New NNPC Ltd will continue to engender affordable energy for Nigerians, not just for the immediate, but for the years ahead,” he said. The event had in attendance, Vice President-elect, Sen. Shettima Kashim, Minister of Power, Mr Abubakar Aliyu, and his Petroleum Resources counterpart, Chief Timipre Sylva, Gov. Babagana Zulum of Borno, Sen. Margery Okadigbo, and NNPCL Board Chairman, Other signatories include the Group Chief Executive Officer of NNPCL, Malam Mele Kyari and the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar El-Kanemi, accompanied by other Emirs. The president who had earlier inaugurated other projects in the state also paid courtesy call to the Shehu of Borno.( MAIDUGURI MONDAY MARKET President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday inspected the ruins of Maiduguri Monday Market, destroyed by fire recently, commiserating with the government and people of Borno on the unfortunate incident. The president was also at the palace of the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar El-Kanemi, to register his profound condolences to the victims who lost property and means of livelihood in the disaster. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s spokesman, who confirmed this in a statement, said the president also visited the market, still smouldering five days after. The president was accompanied by Gov. Babagana Zulum of Borno, Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima, members of the Federal Executive Council and some eminent citizens of the state. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, told the president that assessment on the level of damage is still ongoing. She announced that the Federal Government had provided immediate relief materials to the victims of the fire incident, including 20,000 bags of rice, 20,000 bags of maize and condiments. The minister pledged that the ministry, in collaboration with the Borno Government, would provide building materials to reconstruct the market. “After the assessment, the Ministry will submit a full report to Mr President to seek special intervention,” she said. Zulum said the market, which was built in the 1970s, with no fewer than 20,000 beneficiaries was completely destroyed by the fire. He acknowledged the support by the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs. The governor revealed that the state government had provided an immediate support of N1 billion. “Even the N1 billion, if the traders share N50,000 each, I do not think that will be enough for them,” he said. The Chairman of the Market Association, Alhaji Awaji Bukar, expressed deep appreciation to the president for the visit, appealing for more support from the federal government. Earlier at the palace of the Shehu of Borno, Buhari said he was also in the state to inaugurate projects executed by the Zulum-led administration. “I am delighted to be here with the Shehu and the good people of Borno State, to commiserate with you on the unfortunate Monday Market fire incident. “I’m pleased to be back to commission projects and be part of the unstoppable development drive of this great state. “I’m equally happy that the state continues to strive for the normalisation of its affairs following the enormous successes achieved in tackling the problem of security that had reached worrying heights in the past. “I like to put on record my deep and sincere appreciation of the love and support of the people of Borno State. I don’t take this for granted. “May Allah increase His blessings upon the Shehu and his people. God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria,’’ he wrote in the Visitor’s Notebook at the palace. The Shehu of Borno thanked Buhari for overseeing the return of peace and normalcy to the state. While lauding the improved security situation in the tate, the traditional ruler declared that “no single local government area in the state is under the control of Boko Haram terrorists”. He said the president had successfully carried out his mission in office and that as far as Borno is concerned, he had done far more than anyone had expected. He expressed their appreciation to the president for his sympathies following the devastating fire that consumed the entire Monday Market. He enumerated the blessings of the Buhari administration in its eight years of office to the State: “When you came in, we had more than two million Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs mostly women and children roaming the streets in Maiduguri. ”We had no power for two years; we had no GSM. We had no outgoing roads except that to Kano. Boko Haram had taken over the other roads. “We had no Airport as the one here was damaged and therefore no commercial flights.  Seventeen of the 27 local government councils were under Boko Haram. ”Today, no single local government area is under their control. ”You changed everything by transferring the Command-and-Control Centre of the anti-terrorism war to this place. ”We thank you for standing with us in our trying times. Together, we remain with you, in or out of office,” the Shehu, whom also the Chairman of the state council of chiefs, said.