The Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu has called for reawakening the promotion of unity, love, peace and prosperity of the country. Adamu, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr David Adejo made the call in Abuja on Monday, as Nigeria joins other 55 countries to commemorate 2023 Commonwealth Day, The annual celebration among member-states has the theme: “Forging a Sustainable and Peaceful Future”. Adamu said that unity, love and peace were the foundation of development for the country in particular and the body of commonwealth nations in general. “Like we all know, the existence of peace in any space of human aggregation or nation translates to progress, wealth and tranquility. “It enhances positive outcomes in trade, investment, human rights, democratic governance, quality education, digitised learning and most importantly, entrenches equity and equality, which in Nigeria and most Commonwealth means empowerment of youths, women and the girl-child. “As we celebrate this day, it is important we remind ourselves that the prosperity, peace and security of our country is a collective responsibility and requires our mutual commitment and perseverance,” he said. Adamu, while emphasisng that the 2023 programme would be the 7th and last Commonwealth Day commemoration he would be participating as the Minister of Education, thanked the Royal Commonwealth Society and the Nigeria Chapter for the honour reposed on him. He promised to continue to promote the Commonwealth values to transform children and young people in and outside the educational institutions. “You are all aware of the trial of the Commonwealth family that started amongst countries with allegiance to the British Empire that led to the removal of the term “British”. “This is for the attainment of independence and coexistence as equals for the common good of all member nations and indeed humanity at large. “Today, it is accommodating about 32 small states, including Island countries have further expanded its membership to non-British colonised countries. “This paved way for Gabon and Togo to join the Commonwealth in 2022 as its newest members,” he added. Reading the first message of His Majesty, King Charles III, by Mr Nnalue Tobechukwu, a student of Federal Government Boys College, Apo, said the day marked the 10th anniversary of the Charter of the Commonwealth. He said this gave expression to defining values such as peace and justice, tolerance, respect and solidarity. He said the myriad connections between nations had sustained and enriched “us for more than seven decades”, adding that commitment to peace, progress and opportunity would sustain the body for many more years. “Commonwealth Day is an occasion of particular pride for my beloved Mother. The late Queen, a treasured opportunity to celebrate our Commonwealth family, to whose service she dedicated her long and remarkable life. “In succeeding Her Majesty as Head of the Commonwealth, I draw great strength from her example, together with all that I have learnt from the extraordinary people I have met throughout the commonwealth, over so many years. “The Commonwealth has been a constant in my own life, and yet its diversity continues to amaze and inspire me. “Its near-boundless potential as a force for good in the world demands our highest ambition, its sheer scale challenges us to unite and be bold,” he said. Meanwhile, the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Hon. Zubairu Dada reaffirmed Nigeria’s commitment in realising the ideals of the Commonwealth. Dada said that over the years, Nigeria had contributed to the success of the Commonwealth, while looking forward to future programmes. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that highlights of the event were parade of Commonwealth Heads of Government by Nigerian students, poetic rendition and cultural display. Meanwhile, the Royal Commonwealth Society of Nigeria has conferred the 2023 Commonwealth Award of Excellence on Adamu Adamu for his support to activities of commonwealth society and the longest serving minister of education.