WorldStage Newsonline– President Muhammadu Buhari has commended supporters and the Presidential Campaign Council of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the party’s “historic win” in the Feb. 25 election. The president made the commendation when he received the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu,  and the Vice President-elect, Sen. Kashim Shettima, who made a triumphal entry into his private residence in Daura, Katsina State, on Wednesday. He believed that the party’s victory would never have been possible without discipline, commitment and hard work of the APC Campaign Council. Apparently overcome with a lot of emotions, seeing the “phenomenal election result,” Buhari kept repeating, “My Good Lord, My Good Lord, fantastic.” “We are very lucky, there were no problems. No blood shed, no accidents. We have God Almighty to thank for this,” the president uttered as he warmly clasped the hand of the president-elect Buhari said he was pleased that those who chose the APC and its candidates, affirming through this their desire that the momentum of development under the administration continues. Tinubu in an interview, said that as a loyal party man, they came to present the certificates to the President as the party leader and to commend him for his efforts to support democracy in Africa. The certificates are symbolic of their victory in the presidential election as issued by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday in Abuja. The President-elect said: “This is the largest democracy in Africa. We could not have done any better. ”We are lucky, there is no accident and no matter how provocative a defeat is, we have to tolerate it if we are democrats. We have a nation to build,” he said. Tinubu and his deputy were accompanied to Daura by the Chairman of the APC, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, the APC founding chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, as well as the governors of Katsina, Kaduna, Ebonyi, Zamfara, Lagos and Jigawa States. Others were the governors of Kebbi, Niger, Plateau, Ogun and the former governors of Borno, Ali Modu Sheriff, and that of Zamfara, Abdulaziz Yari. The Ministers of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, and Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, also made the trip. Alhaji Kashim Imam, Wale Tinubu, Deputy Governor of Katsina State Mannir Yakubu, and the Speaker of the Parliament of Kaduna state Yusuf Zailani, were also on the entourage.