* This is a shining moment in the life of any man *I thank the Nigerian people for their abiding belief in our democracy * Political competition must now give way to political conciliation and inclusive governance *To you, the young people of this country, I hear you loud and clear * Together, we shall build a brighter and more productive society for today, tomorrow and for years to come WorldStage Newsonline– The president-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has vowed to be a fair leader to all Nigerians throughout his reign as the president of Nigeria. He also promised to be in tune with the aspirations of Nigerians, charge up their energies and harness their talents to deliver a nation that all would be proud of. Tinubu made the promises on Wednesday in his first statement as the president-elect, just as he thanked all for his election as the 16th president of Nigeria. Said Tinubu:  “I am profoundly humbled that you have elected me to serve as the 16th president of our beloved republic. This is a shining moment in the life of any man and affirmation of our democratic existence. From my heart, I say thank you… “I thank the Nigerian people for their abiding belief in our democracy. I shall be a fair leader to all Nigerians. I will be in tune with your aspirations, charge up your energies and harness your talents to deliver a nation that we can be proud of.” Tinubu also extended the hand of friendship to his opponents during the election, urging them to allow peace to reign. Said he:  “To my fellow candidates, former VP Atiku, former governor Kwankwaso, former governor Obi and all others, I extend the hand of friendship. This was a competitive, high-spirited campaign. “You have my utmost respect. “Political competition must now give way to political conciliation and inclusive governance. “During the election, you may have been my opponent but you were never my enemy.  In my heart, you are my brothers. “Still, I know some candidates will be hard put to accept the election results. It is your right to seek legal recourse. What is neither right nor defensible is for anybody to resort to violence. Any challenge to the electoral outcome should be made in a court of law, and not in the streets. “I also ask my supporters to let peace reign and tensions fade. We ran a principled, peaceful and progressive campaign. The aftermath of our campaign must be as benign. “Yes, there are divisions amongst us that should not exist. Many people are uncertain, angry and hurt; I reach out to every one of you. Let the better aspects of our humanity step forward at this fateful moment. Let us begin to heal and bring calm to our nation.” He also spoke to the youths. His words: “Now, to you, the young people of this country, I hear you loud and clear. I understand your pains, your yearnings for good governance, a functional economy and a safe nation that protects you and your future. “I am aware that for many of you Nigeria has become a place of abiding challenges limiting your ability to see a bright future for yourselves. “Remodeling our precious national home requires the harmonious efforts of all of us, especially the youth. Working together, we shall move this nation as never before. “My running mate, Vice President-elect Shettima, and I understand the challenges ahead. More importantly, we also understand and deeply value the talent and innate goodness of you, the Nigerian people. We pledge to listen and to do the difficult things, the big deeds, that put us on the path of irreversible progress. Hold us firmly to account, but please give us a chance first. “Together, we shall build a brighter and more productive society for today, tomorrow and for years to come. “Today, you have given me the greatest honour you can bestow on one man. “In return, I will give you my utmost as your next president and commander-in-chief. Peace, unity and prosperity shall be the cornerstones of the society we intend to build. When you gaze upon what we shall accomplish in the coming years, you shall speak with pride at being a Nigerian.”