The Executive Governor of Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke has called on the National Population Commission (NPC) to ensure a truly transparent conduct of the 2023 national census. Addressing a team from the NPC led by its National Commissioner, Senator Mudashiru Hussein, Governor Adeleke who commended the NPC for the ongoing preparation for the 2023 National Census said all eyes are on the commission to deliver. Governor Adeleke noted that “despite the elections, we are taking the census project seriously. All levels of government including town associations are preparing”. “The Census is critical for national planning. Accurate Census helps the government to meet the needs of the people in term of infrastructures and services”. “The history of the National Census in Nigeria is controversial. We must get it right this time around”, the Governor affirmed. He urged the commission to ensure error free national head count, citing accuracy as key to acceptability of the outcome of the census”. He specifically urged the commission to embrace tech application in national census, submitting that “accuracy can be enhanced when appropriate technologies are deployed in the head count project; “For us in Osun State, we pledge our commitment to mobilise our people for the exercise”. “I use this opportunity to call on Osun residents to participate fully. Just like general and state elections, getting counted during the census is a national civic responsibility”, the Governor stated. Speaking earlier, Senator Hussein told the Governor that his team were in the state to sensitise residents for participation in the upcoming census. The National Commissioner who drummed up support for the census said the NPC is fully ready for the national head count, thanking the Governor for his pledge to mobilise the residents of the state for the national programme”. ” We are elated by the commitment of Mr. Governor. The publicity committee to be headed by the State’s Deputy Governor will assist to enhance awareness and sensitisation for the national census”, Senator Hussein affirmed.