*Four deadly accidents, six deaths last week alone *Knocks for Fashola over abandoned portion of the road WorldStage Newsonline– Residents of Ijaiye-Alakuko-Sango area of the Lagos-Abeokuta stretch of the expressway are now worried about the almost daily occurrence of vehicular accidents and deaths that have reached a troubling height in the last two weeks. One of the residents of the area, Mrs. Dorcas Alalade, who spoke to the WorldStage Newsonline disclosed that four deadly accidents and about six deaths happened on the road last week alone. Alalade who sells petty consumables at Kola bus stop on the expressway narrated that while a young motorist was slammed to death at Meiran bus stop of the road last week Tuesday by a commercial bus plying on one-way, another bystander at Abucon bus stop was knocked down and dragged to Moshalashi bus stop by an LT 100 bus trying to escape after hitting the victim and unknown to the driver that the victim’s body was hanging under his bus. A day later at Salolo bus stop, another eyewitness who asked to be mentioned because he does have the authority to speak on the incident, said an environment cleaner at the popular FineCoat paints’ premises was also knocked down by a commercial bus while attending to his chore of decongesting the drainage at the front of the establishment. A Lagos State government health worker heading to office in the morning of Thursday last week stated that another accident involving a fully loaded tricycle plying on one-way collided with a Toyota jeep headed toward Iyana Ipaja at same Salolo Bus Stop, opposite a Zenith Bank. Though she said she didn’t know the extent of casualty she suggested a couple of commuters would probably have died in the accident given how badly mangled bodies of both the tricycle and the jeep were as well as the splashes of heavy blood on both vehicles. There was also a report of four siblings that were crushed to death at Amje Bus Stop, on their way from church. Sympathizers who witnessed the unfortunate accident lamented the atrocities of “one-way” drivers. One Akeem Tajudeen, who helped rush the victims to hospital expressed frustration at the daily experience of having to rush victims of drive against traffic to nearby clinics. Pointing to a vulcanizing compressor by the roadside, Akeem said, “that is my shop. I have seen many things in this place. One way drivers are the devil on this road. Both private and commercial drivers commit the crime. According to transporters, commuters and residents WorldStage Newsonline spoke to, traffic accidents and killings have become a daily occurrence caused mainly by vehicles switching from the bad stretch of the expressway to the other side and facing those driving on their own lane thereby causing collision and knocking down of people crossing the road unaware of vehicles running one-way. On visit to the bad portion of the expressway, WorldStage discovered that while reconstruction work had been completed to Sango Toll Gate side towards Oshodi, the portion between Meiran bus stop and Toll Gate on other side is full of wide and deep potholes yet to be reconstructed. WorldStage also found a bill board erected at Meiran area by the contractors doing the reconstruction, Julius Berger Plc, announcing that the work on the road is being prosecuted through a Sukuk bond, an Islamic financial institution’s arrangement. For more than a year since Julius Berger left site, the state of the road from Salolo inward Abeokuta had become a nightmare for both motorists and commuters who ply the road. From Salolo to Toll Gate inward Abeokuta, a journey that normally takes less than 20 minutes, now takes more than one hour due to the very bad shape of the road. Some motorists and commuters who spoke on the condition of the road lamented the number of man hours being wasted, urging the Federal Ministry of Works to as a matter of urgency, come to their rescue by resuming work on the road. Residents of the area said they didn’t know why Julius Berger stopped having completed one portion to Ogun State boundary of Toll Gate, speculating that federal government might have probably failed to meet the conditions of the bond for reconstruction work to continue. Giving reason for motorists plying one-way against traffic regulations, a commercial bus driver who identified himself simply as Mukaila, said it wasn’t for stubbornness or ignorance commercial buses took to one-way driving, but that bad stretch of the road was causing them heavy cost on regular repair of their vehicles as well as loss of profit due to long hours they had to spend navigating from potholes on the bad section. It’s same story from private motorists, many of whom complained of incurring of heavy maintenance cost on their vehicles beside the fact that vehicles plying that side of the expressway get old and rickety quickly. Mr. Remi Adelaja, a resident of Kola area of Alagbado and a motorist, told WorldStage that he had stopped driving his car on the expressway and instead resorted to maneuvering his way to and fro work through the feeder roads. As lamentation over the bad condition of the road continues, not a few of the residents of the area as well as road users have slammed the Minister of Works and Housing Mr. Babatunde Fashola over the neglect of the abandoned stretch. They recalled that he was among those who criticized former president Olusegun Obasanjo for abandoning the expressway throughout his eight years rule and queried the difference between him and Obasanjo with regard to reconstruction of the road. They also recalled that Obasanjo even awarded reconstruction of the road to Julius Berger but was poorly handled by the construction company which failed to do the drainage part well, resulting in eventual washing away of the tar on the road. Transporters, commuters and residents called on the federal government to ensure that reconstruction work to resume on the abandoned stretch of the expressway if it sincerely cares for safety and wellbeing of its citizens.