WorldStage Newsonline–Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the All Progressive Congress (APC) presidential candidate, has promised to expand the tourism base of Cross River if elected in the Feb. 25 presidential election. Tinubu at the APC presidential rally on Tuesday in Calabar promised to support the Cross River Government to harness the tourism potential of the state with a view to make the state the wonder of tourism in the world. The APC presidential candidate also pledged to change the fortunes of the state, just like he changed the economic base of Lagos State when he was the governor. “The people of Cross River, I want to assure you that I will make your state the wonder of tourism and make it beautiful and exceptional like Lagos. “The youths will get jobs, and we will also turn the water surroundings into a great fortune,” he said. He alleged that the 16 years of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had created a great setback for the country, adding that the government of PDP privatised the nation’s asset to private pockets. “If PDP had arrested their 16 years corruption plan, we won’t be where we are today as a country. “I urge the good people of Cross River to vote for me and all the APC candidates in the state during the poll,” he said. Speaking earlier, Gov. Ben Ayade, solicited for the completion of the Bakassi deep seaport and the super highway projects initiated by his administration. He appealed to Tinubu to look into the two signature projects, adding that the projects were targeted at expanding the revenue base of the state. Also, speaking, the state APC governorship candidate, Sen. Bassey Otu, said that the completion of the deep seaport and the super highway projects would boost the economic fortunes of the state. Dr Berta Edu, the APC National Women Leader, urged the people of the state to vote for Tinubu because of his track record. Sen. John Owan-Enoh, Chairman of the Local Organising Committee of the event, said that Tinubu has the capacity and experience to solve Nigeria’s challenges of elected as president.