Google, on Tuesday, launched a programme that would provide resources and opportunities for women founders in Africa. The programme is tagged: First Google for Startups Accelerator: Women Founders in  Africa. Folarin Aiyegbusi, Head of Google Startup Ecosystem, Africa,,  while announcing the launch, said  that applications for the programme  was now opened. Aiyegbusi  said application for the programme would end on Feb. 20. He said that Google was excited about the open call for applications for its 3 months accelerator programme, specifically tailored to address the unique challenges faced by women founders in Africa. According to him,  we believe that investing in women founders in Africa is critical for economic empowerment that will enable the creation of jobs for the growing African youth population. ‘’African female founders face challenges in their entrepreneurial pursuits, including limited access to funding. ‘’Despite these challenges, women make up a significant portion of African entrepreneurs, with 58 per cent  of businesses in Africa being owned by women. “Elevating the participation and leadership of women in the entrepreneurship ecosystem is crucial for promoting gender equality and driving economic growth in Africa,’’ he said. According to him, the women founders will be mentored by industry experts who will provide guidance and support to the selected participants throughout the programme He said that the industry  experts would be instrumental in helping the startups achieve their full potential and create a positive impact in their communities. Aiyegbusi said that the Programme was an extension of the Google for Startups Accelerator Africa Programme. He said that the programme established in 2017,  reflected Google’s dedication to supporting startups and addressing the unique challenges faced by women entrepreneurs in Africa. According to him, the 12-week programme, which will commence in March 2023, includes one bootcamp per month, held in a hybrid style of online and in-person sessions. “Selected participants will receive access to Google’s products, mentoring from industry experts, resources, tools, and technology, as well as networking opportunities and connections with investors to support the growth of their startups,” he said. One of the Mentors, Akua Nyame-Mensah,  expressed excitement  to be a mentor in the inaugural Google for Startups Accelerator Programme for Women Founders. Kwame-Mensah said that as part of supporting the next generation of leaders in Africa, the programme offered women an opportunity to grow their networks and the accountability to achieve their professional goals. The women founders  building tech startups in Africa or for Africa can apply through the programme website at g.co/acceleratorafrica.