Konga, Nigeria’s leading composite e-commerce giant, has formally unveiled the first batch of winners for its highly anticipated all-expense paid Knowledge Weekend programme with the Chairman, Zinox Group, Leo Stan Ekeh. They are Mrs. MolayoJebutu and Mr. Joshua Emmanuel, both of whom are frequent and loyal shoppers of Konga. Consequently, both winners will be among the lucky shoppers to enjoy a host of exciting initiatives lined up for the exclusive mentorship programme. They include funded fares to the location of the retreat, hotel accommodation, feeding and cost of return trip all funded by KongaKares. In addition, the lucky beneficiaries will be exposed to healthy living tips, a finishing school, gym/aerobic sessions, deeper insights on the pitfalls confronting contemporary businesses, the new avenues to create sustainable wealth, how to navigate the prevailing tough business climate, as well as direct, one-on-one feedback sessions with Mr. Ekeh. Participants are also expected to dine with Mr. Ekeh, a Forbes Best of Africa Leading Tech Icon in addition to engaging him on his record-breaking entrepreneurial journey. The two winners were selected randomly from shoppers participating in the current edition of the KongaJara promotion which commenced on Tuesday December 13, 2022 and will run through Tuesday January 31, 2023. An annual festive season sale, KongaJara offers massive deals, mouthwatering discounts and huge savings for all categories of shoppers but with a difference this time round, with 12 lucky shoppers set to enjoy an all-expense paid weekend mentorship programme with Ekeh. Intending winners are currently being picked from customers who shopped on any of Konga’s various platforms, including online –  www.konga.com and offline in any Konga retail store nationwide or via Konga Bulk, as well as those who purchased flight tickets on Konga Travel or carried out transactions on KongaPay between December 1, 2022 till the end of January 31, 2023. Although the selection is being donerandomly, shoppers who have a higher frequency or volume of purchases stand a better chance of being selected for the much-anticipated mentorship programme. With the emergence of the first set of winners, the battle for the 10 remaining slots is set to intensify among shoppers as the KongaJara promotion enters its final month. Tagged Knowledge Weekend, the free mentorship programme with the Zinox Chairman will bring a fitting climax to the KongaJara fiesta sale which combines the Christmas season deals and New Year bonus sale, offering extra savings on items and best prices unmatched anywhere else in Nigeria for all categories of customers, including bulk buyers. The mentorship programme, an initiative of KongaKares, the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) arm of the Konga Group, is part of efforts to empower budding entrepreneurs with the right business success tips and strategies to create new wealth in the 21st Century. Names of winners will be announced every Monday, with final list of winners to be published on the Konga website and on other major news media channels on February 6, 2023.