WorldStage Newsonline– The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), has intercepted a Brazil returnee, Prosper Agbasi with 105 parcels of cocaine concealed in candies at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) Ikeja, Lagos on Christmas Day. This is contained in a statement by the Director Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Mr Femi Babafemi on Sunday in Abuja. Babafemi said that the suspect was arrested at the ‘D’ arrival hall of the MMIA during inward clearance of passengers from Sao Paulo, Brazil. He said that the suspect who arrived via Doha on Qatar Airways was intercepted following credible intelligence. “An initial search of the suspect’s two checked in bags almost made him a free man as there was nothing incriminating found there. “Until the NDLEA officers took a second look at the duty-free shopping nylon bags containing packs of ‘candies’ he was holding in his hands. “A thorough examination of the duty-free shopping bags revealed the packs of candies inside were actually used to conceal 105 parcels of cocaine weighing 2.8 kilograms and 43 grams of cannabis,” he said. According to him, preliminary test conducted on a plastic bottle of body lotion found in possession of the suspect also tested positive to cocaine with a total weight of 472 grams. “Married to a Brazilian lady with a daughter, Prosper who claimed to be into clothing business in Brazil was hoping to sell the drug in Enugu, his state,” he said. Babafemi quoted the Chairman, NDLEA, retired Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa as commending the officers and men of the MMIA Commands for the arrests and seizures. Marwa urged them along with their compatriots across the country to step up offensives against drug cartels in the new year including focus on drug demand reduction. 3 TRAFFICKERS WITH 256KGS ILLICIT DRUGS The NDLEA has has arrested three traffickers with a total of 256 kilogrammes of illicit substances seized from them during interdiction operations in Kwara, Kogi and Niger. The Director Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Mr Femi Babafemi said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. Babafemi said that on Dec. 26, a team of NDLEA officers on stop and search duty along Ilorin-Jebba highway arrested a suspect, Idris Saeed, 19, with 60 blocks of compressed cannabis sativa, weighing 30kg. He added that operatives in Niger on similar operation along Jebba-Mokwa road also recovered 240 blocks of the same substance weighing 168 kikilogrammes. Babafemi said that the multi-colour sacks of the substance was loaded in a Peugeot J5 bus, with registration number MAG 146 XA, from Lagos going for delivery in Kano. “In Kogi, operatives intercepted a truck coming from Onitsha, Anambra state to Maiduguri, Borno along Okene-Abuja highway where 9,900 ampoules of pentazocine injection (42kgs) were recovered on Sat. Dec. 24,” he said. The NDLEA spokesman also said that a suspect, Ibrahim Jibril, 20, was arrested on the same route with 40 blocks of cannabis sativa weighing 16kgs coming from Lagos to Jigawa in a Toyota Hiace commercial bus on Dec. 27. Babafemi quoted the Chairman, NDLEA, retired Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa as commending the officers and men of Kwara, Kogi and Niger Commands for the arrests and seizures. Marwa urged them along with their compatriots across the country to step up offensive action against drug cartels in 2023, with equal focus on drug demand reduction efforts.