… newly-commissioned cargo airport will boost agriculture in Yobe – Tinubu President Muhammadu Buhari has charged Nigerians and people of Yobe State to vote for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the next President. Buhari spoke at the Damaturu Township stadium during the All Progressives Congress Presidential campaign rally where he told the people why they should vote for the former Governor of Lagos  State because he is the person capable to continue the work of rebuilding Nigeria he started over seven years ago. “I accompany Asiwaju here to tell you to vote for him so that he can continue with my legacy of rebuilding Nigeria,” the president said. While addressing party faithful who trooped out in their large numbers to attend the APC presidential rally in the state, Tinubu in his prepared speech said he will use the newly commissioned Yobe Cargo airport to boost agriculture in the state and praised President Buhari for the airport project and other laudable projects across the country he described as  wise investments. “The cargo airport Mr. President commissioned yesterday will be greatly needed when our agenda for greater production of agricultural and industrial exports begins to take off. “It is a wise investment made with courage and foresight.  It will be needed to transport Yobe’s excellent sesame, hibiscus and gum Arabic to the rest of the world,” he said. Tinubu commended the president and security agencies for the success recorded in the battle against insecurity. He said it was an indication of the marked improvement in the security situation in the North-east that Asíwájú Tinubu could spend Monday night in Yobe. After attending the campaign rally of the party in  Yola, Adamawa State on Monday, the president had proceeded to Damaturu where he spent the night. At the rally were APC National Chairman Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Senate President Senator Ahmed Lawan, Vice Presidential Candidate Kashim Shettima, Chairman Progressive Governors’ Forum and Governor of Kebbi State Atiku Bagudu, Director-General of the Tinubu/Shettima, DG of the campaign and Governor of Plateau, Hon. Simon Lalong and many party leaders. Speaking further on agriculture, he said, “Harnessing our agricultural endowment is more than an economic desire.  It is a matter of national security. We need to further guarantee our food security to better ensure social stability and lay the groundwork for even more economic progress. “We will establish agricultural hubs and irrigation and water catchment systems to assist farmers throughout the nation. Yields and harvests will increase. More importantly, we will encourage value-added agro-processing businesses that will foster greater economic activity creating well paid jobs and bringing better products to local markets and to your family’s dinner table. “We will invest in the individual small farmer. You will earn a good and guaranteed income through the establishment of Commodity Exchange boards that will ensure an acceptable price for the crops you labor so hard to grow.” On the investment and tourism opportunities available in the state, Tinubu promised to work with the state government to invest in the exploration of the precious mineral resources found in Yobe State “Your limestone, trona and gypsum will create jobs and earn money for the state.  Yobe’s tourism potentials of the beautiful landscapes, sand dunes, oases and bird sanctuaries will be highlighted,” he added. He also promised to create jobs for the people of the state, while also improving their access to quality education. “The youth of Yobe will be better integrated into the national and world economy in ways that help and benefit you. We will empower you with the right education that would make you competitive in the global economy “The best of technology will be made available to you. Whether it is the best of knowledge in modern agriculture, the digital economy or in manufacturing and industry, that education will come closer and be more accessible to you. “We will work with private sector leaders to make sure your education reflects the skills you will need to prosper in the economy of the future. “We will tackle and reduce unemployment.  My dream is that you are prosperous and never idle. You will have good jobs or will become thriving  entrepreneurs giving jobs to others. “You are a proud people and you will become a source of pride to the nation and to Africa.  We are planning big and good things for you,” he said. The former Lagos State governor praised the people of the state for being steadfast to the progressives family since the return to democracy in 1999, not allowing the opposition any chance. He sought their support to continue this trend. He said, “Yobe has always been a progressive state. You have never allowed the locusts to land here and feast on what does not belong to them.  Instead, you have been loyal to the progressive cause of building a state and nation both of which have the sole mission of serving their people. You have supported this noble cause and the APC, our nation’s best and only true hope for good governance. Now, we are here to ask you to remain true to this proud tradition. Continue to support us progressives.” Not failing to mention his plans for security, Tinubu again praised President Buhari for ensuring the people of the state can now move freely without fear, promising to build on this. APC Chairman Adamu, Senate President Lawan, VP Candidate Shettima and Campaign DG Lalong all addressed the rally in Hausa language, urging Yobe people to vote Tinubu and continue to repose their trust in APC.