Bullseye Digital Manpower, a technology-focused job placement and career management brand, says it is set to train and empower millions of Nigerians with in-demand digital technology competencies in 2023. The Founder of the firm, Mr Lare Ayoola, in a statement by the organisation’s Head of Communications, Mr Damola Olofinlua, disclosed this  in Lagos. Ayoola, an entrepreneur who doubles as Chairman of Tranter IT, said that the training and empowerment would cover software development, software quality assurance, UI/UX design, data science, and digital marketing within six or 12 months. “Bullseye will empower enrolees with ample opportunities to gain hands-on experience during their programme, after which they would be placed in technology jobs with organisations across different industries in Nigeria and beyond. “Already, the institution is set to admit the first stream of students into its software development programme,” Ayoola said. According to him, in the coming weeks, other courses will be introduced in addition to the software development courses. He said these “would also follow Bullseye’s robust curriculum which is guaranteed to set them on the right path to achieving their career goals and life ambitions”. “With courses spanning 6 or 12 months and classes held on weekdays or only weekends, enrolees are spoilt for options based on their preference. “Its flexible arrangement makes it a great choice for recent graduates of higher institutions, secondary school leavers with intermediate knowledge of their chosen field, professionals in the early years of their career or even those more advanced in their career, desirous of a switch to tech. “Students also have the option of making one-off payment, in instalments, or access a friendly facility payable within 3 years after their post-graduation job placement when they would already be earning,” he said. Ayoola said that, with Bullseye, recruiters would have a ready pool of trained and experienced talents to fill openings. He added that well-meaning organisations like NGOs, international organisations, professional bodies and governments at all levels could also support the national quest towards capacity development, by sponsoring interested enrolees of their choice. Ayoola said other training institutions could leverage Bullseye’s talent placement proposition to secure jobs for their trainees. “Bullseye will address some of the major challenges in the technology and human capital management industries, including the high attribution rate of talent, the increasing lack of specialised skills in technology, and the rising global demand for local talent, among others,” Ayoola said. According to him, the firm is celebrated for its provision of technology support staff to some of the foremost organisations across Nigeria for over a decade. He said that in about a decade, Tranter IT had outsourced over 8000 tech talents to organisations across Nigeria. The founder said that Bullseye Digital Manpower, the tech education, recruitment, and career support brand, would enhance the reskilling and upskilling of interested participants. He said it would fill the widening talent gap in the technology ecosystem with proficient and experienced specialists and accelerate tech entrepreneurship in Nigeria. “We have set up Bullseye Digital Manpower to empower enrolees with ample and practical opportunities to skill up in the most sellable aspects of technology services and solutions delivery. “Not only would enrolees be trained in real-life environments by some of the most qualified tech tutors on the continent, they would also benefit from internships and job placements in leading companies during and after their programme,” Ayoola added.