WorldStage Newsonline– ColdHubs, a Nigeria’s startup launched in 2015 by Nnaemeka Ikegwuonu has concluded to add 40 more hubs to the current 72 solar-powered cold rooms across Nigeria. Chinedu Hardy Nwadike and Ijeomah Harriet of the Media Team of ColdHubs in an exclusive interview with WorldstageTelevision  for the Startups on WorldStage (#SoW) project said some of the new bus  will serve farm clusters in remote areas of the country, just as the company will soon enter Benin, Rwanda, Kenya, and more African countries. ColdHubs operates by building cold rooms in market places, 54 of which are self-operated in outdoor markets – as well as two refrigerated trucks, so that sellers at a fee can store their unsold produces for some days until they are ready to sell them. The company recently won the $2 million 2022 Food Planet Prize by The Curt Bergfors Foundation, the world’s biggest award in the environmental and food sectors. Nwadike mentioned getting spaces in already built-up markets as a major hurdle to their expansion, saying the major support needed from government would be to make land spaces available to them. He said, “If we want anything from government, it will probably to get some land spaces, if it’s in their power. One thing we need is for government to make it easy for us, helping to settle all other parties that will be interested in lands. “So if there are government agencies who have such power in the market and appreciate that we are bringing something, innovation that would make the market better, that would balance things and help reduce spoilage and they understand we deserve a land space, it will be good.” He identified funding as the most common challenge being faced by startups in the country and advised youngsters interested in becoming entrepreneurs to develop the mindset of making themselves available for businesses of their interests, to provide solutions that will solve problems for them to win the attention of the world for their efforts. Rather than making funding the issue, he said entrepreneurship-minded persons should be more concerned with satisfaction that they were close to something that would make their dream come true. “Whether the money is coming is not the issue but you know you are close to something that would make your dream come true,” he said. “I will say you must always have a very big vision. It’s okay to crawl, then you stand, then you walk, you run. If you are able to find wings then you fly. So you need to have a direction; if you want to crawl you crawl towards something, if you want to walk, you walk toward something, if you are running you are running toward something and if you are flying, of course you should have a direction.” He admitted that it’s always difficult to run a business in Nigeria, especially if you need a lot of funding to do that, but expressed  a belief that “if you make yourself available, the world will give you breath, which makes me believe that as long as you are providing a solution that is solving a problem in the world, people will always pay attention to you.” On the environmental award of $2m recently won by the company, Nwadike said, “winning it is basically more work for us, because what it means is that we have to make our technology better, we will have to, may be, go for a better technology than the one we have before and also have to follow our expansion dream to achieve every other thing we have set in line for ourselves.”