…pledges continuous  support for agencies Oyo State governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, on Sunday, admonished the security agencies in the country to remain professional and neutral in the coming elections, saying that  politics will go but the country will remain. The governor stated this at the grand finale of the 2023 Armed Forces Remembrance Day, held at the Remembrance Arcade, Government House, Agodi, Ibadan. He promised to keep supporting and working closely with members of the Armed Forces and other security agencies in the state. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the governor equally performed the traditional wreath-laying during the celebration. The governor commended the officers and men of the Armed Forces for their efforts in battling insecurity in the North-East and South-East as well as in Oyo State, urging them to continue to ensure that peace reigns in the state and the country at large. He said: “My advice for them is to continue to remain neutral. The country belongs to all of us and at the end of everything, politics will go but the country will remain. “Let me also use this opportunity to thank the officers and men of the Nigerian Armed Forces for what they are doing for our country at this period. “We have challenges in the North-East and South-East. We also have little resources and have been asking the security agencies to do much more, and they are trying to cope. “So, we want to really appreciate their efforts. We have always tried to support them and we will continue in that light.” The chairman, Nigerian Legion, Oyo State Command, Evangelist Julius Ogunkojo, also thanked the Oyo State Government for improving the welfare of the dependents of the fallen heroes in the state. He appealed to the government to continue to assist the veterans and dependents of the fallen heroes so as to make life more meaningful for them. Ogunkojo added that any donation by the state government to them, will be distributed evenly and equally in the 33 local government areas of the state. According to him: “They are not being paid pensions. Some did not serve the required years in service. So, you can see they need to be cared for, and that is why we need the assistance of the Oyo State Government to help us so that we can take care of those people. “Also, we have medically challenged soldiers. We have disabled ones. Any donation the state government gives to us will be distributed evenly and equally in the 33 local government areas we have in Oyo State, which is the duty of the Chairmen of the Legion in this state.” The ceremony witnessed the laying of wreaths by Governor Makinde; his wife, Engr. (Mrs) Tamunominini Makinde; the General Officer Commanding, 2 Mechanised Division of the Nigerian Army, Major-General Aminu Chinade and widows of the departed heroes, among other dignitaries. The occasion also witnessed the 21-gun salute and the symbolic release of white pigeons by Governor Makinde to usher peace into the state. Other dignitaries at the event include the Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin; Chief Judge-designate of Oyo State, Hon. Justice Iyabode Yerima; Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun; Commissioner, Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Inclusion, Alhaja Kafilat Olayiwola and other top government officials. The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Mr. Adebowale Williams and other stakeholders from the security sector were also in attendance.