*Devolves PVCs collection at Registration Areas/Ward  between Jan  6th to 15th WorldStage Newsonline– Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has picked the International Conference Centre, Abuja, as venue for the National Situation Room and Collation Centre for the 2023 General Election. The commission has also constituted two committees, first for Collation Secretariat, where Presidential results from the States will be collated and second, the Situation Room and Collation Centre Committee, which shall be responsible for the preparation of the venue. INEC, National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye Esq, in a statement said this was from a decision after its regular weekly meeting held on Thursday. According to him, Commission has established two committees for this purpose. First is the Collation Secretariat, where Presidential results from the States will be collated and will be headed by the Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in exercising his constitutional responsibilities as the Chief Electoral Commissioner of the Federation and Returning Officer for the Presidential election. In addition, a few technical staff will assist him. “The second is the Situation Room and Collation Centre Committee, which shall be responsible for the preparation of the venue, seating arrangement, utilities and services, security, the accreditation of party agents, as well as the national and international observers, media, etc. The Committee has the following membership: Mrs. May Agbamuche-Mbu, National Commissioner – Chairperson; Prof. Abdullahi Abdu Zuru, National Commissioner – Member; Barr. Festus Okoye, National Commissioner – Member; Director, Electoral Operations – Member; Director, ICT – Member; Director, Planning and Monitoring – Member; Director, Security – Member “Other members include, Director, Election & Party Monitoring – Member; Director, International Cooperation & Protocol – Member; Director, Research – Member; Director, Health Services – Member; Director, Estate, Works and Transport – Member; Chief Technical Adviser to the Chairman – Member; Special Adviser to the Chairman – Member; Chief Press Secretary to the Chairman – Member and Director, Commission Secretariat – Member/Secretary.” The Situation Room and Collation Centre Committee was inaugurated by the Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who charged it to commence work in earnest and to discharge its responsibilities diligently. PVCS COLLECTION AT REGISTRATION AREAS/WARD To ensure simple and hitch free collections of Permanent Voters’ Card (PVCs), INEC has resolved to devolve PVC collection to the 8,809 Registration Areas/Wards from Friday 6th to Sunday 15th January 2023. Okoye said this was part of it resolve from the Comission retreat in Lagos with all the Administrative Secretaries and Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) from the 36 States of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory from 28th November to 2nd December 2022. Okoye explained that at the retreat, the Commission finalised the procedure as well as the timetable for collection of PVCs and consequently the collection of PVCs commenced in all the 774 Local Government Offices of the Commission throughout the Federation. He said, the Commission also resolved to devolve PVC collection to the 8,809 Registration Areas/Wards from Friday 6th to Sunday 15th January 2023. According to him, “The devolution of PVC collection to the wards commences tomorrow 6th January 2023, and all validly registered voters who are yet to collect their PVCs are encouraged to seize the opportunity of the devolution to the wards to do so. “After the 15th of January 2023, the exercise will revert to the Local Government Offices of the Commission until 22nd January 2023. All eligible and valid registrants can collect their PVCs from 9.00am to 3.00pm daily, including Saturdays and Sundays. “All those that applied for replacement of lost, damaged, or defaced PVCs can collect their PVCs at the Registration Area/wards during this period and the same thing applies to those that registered prior to the 2019 general election and are yet to collect their cards. “The PVCs of those that applied for transfer are available for collection in the Local Governments and Registration Areas where they intend to vote and not in the State or Local Government where they carried out the transfer.” He however express that the Commission appreciates the patience and understanding of Nigerians who trooped to our various Local Government Offices to collect their PVCs. In making the cards available for collection, the Commission is also working to ensure that the process is simple and hitch-free for Nigerians.