WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria has sought effective collaboration among African Shippers and other stakeholders in order to entrench viable ideas and strategies that will enhance intra-Africa trade. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Dr Magdalene Ajani made the call at the closing ceremony of the 9th African Shippers’ Day celebration held in Lagos. She  urged the Union of African Shippers’ Council (UASC) Secretariat to liaise with the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) Secretariat and other stakeholders  to ensure smooth implementation of policies to boost trade within the continent. According to the permanent secretary, the AfCFTA is a flagship programme of the African  Union. She said being a strong and active member of the African Union, Nigeria was duty-bound and fully committed to supporting the projects, activities and programmes of the AfCFTA secretariat. Ajani said it was such commitment by Nigeria that informed the choice of the theme, “AfCFTA: A Veritable Platform for African Shippers to mainstream into global trade”,  for the 9th African Shippers’ Day celebration. She commended participants at the conference, noting that  the quality of discussions and exhibition at the conference reflected the readiness of African Shippers to improve trade and development in the continent. On the gains of the conference, the permanent secretary said it provided avenue to celebrate the efforts and achievements of importers in propelling trade and development in the sub-region. ”The event provided a veritable platform for interaction among key players and stakeholders in  international trade and transport chain. ”The conference also provided a platform for different exhibitors to showcase their products and services with a view to initiating and concluding business contracts and agreements with shippers from various  parts of the continent. Highlights of the closing ceremony included inspection of exhibitions by the Minister of state Transportaion, Prince Ademola Adegoroye, the Permanent Secretary and other dignitaries. Three companies – JM Boma, Oklan Best Limited and Dijmeds Natural Cosmetics – were adjudged winners and they took 1st, 2nd and 3rd  positions respectively. Representatives from Angola, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,  Central African Republic, Congo, Cote O’ ivoire,  Democratic, Republic of Congo and Equatorial Guinea attended the event. Other representatives are from Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Guinea Bissau, Mali, Nigeria, Niger Republic, Senegal and Togo