WorldStage Newsonline– A 27-Year old Azeez Alamu from the Lakata Compound in Ile-Lakata, Osun State has become the first ever to graduate with first class in the department of political science in the history of the University of Ilorin. Azeez shattered a 40-year-old record that had stood since the department was established as he graduated with a 4.59 out of a possible 5.0 Commulate Grade Point Average. Celebrating his academic feat on Facebook, Alamu appreciated God for being the first student in 40 years to Graduate with first-class grades from his department. “Congratulations to me Alamu Azeez Adebayo as I become the first student to Graduate with FIRST CLASS grade from the Department of Political Science, the University of Ilorin since 40 years of establishment,” he said. Speaking on his success Azeez said: “I feel very much grateful because I see it as grace from God. I don’t have two heads, I’m just a manifestation of His grace,” he said. According to him, he faced different challenges as he was too involved in the university’s extracurricular activities but his determination allowed him to scale through. “As for the challenges, it was the fact that I was too busy for myself attending tutorials, mentorship, volunteerism, religious life and several other activities coupled with being the Class Governor. I scaled through all these with an enthusiastic determination that I want to achieve this and I did it,” he said. ” From the onset of my academic life, it has always been like that with the permission of Allah. I led my Class from basic school at Ansār-up-deen Primary School to The Polytechnic, Ibadan, and here at the University of Ilorin throughout.” He also disclosed that the day he received his first Scholarship from UNILORIN – ₦94,300.  surprised him and was happy because he was not expecting it. He, therefore encouraged students to be dedicated to their studies, not to miss classes, study at their most convenient times, not to be boring students and not overwhelm themselves with too many activities beyond their capacity.