The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has urged security agencies to ensure adequate security for peaceful conduct of the upcoming general election. INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Bauchi State, Alhaji Mohammed Nura made the call at a stakeholders’ meeting on Tuesday in Bauchi. He said the Inter-agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) was working round the clock to achieve safe and peaceful election. Nura said that peace and security were very paramount in ensuring credible and transparent elections in the state. “We hope that as part of this effort , relevant security agencies will arrest,  investigate and prosecute sponsors and perpetrators of violence and other electoral offenses. “For voters to feel safe to come out en masse to vote for the candidates of their choice as we assure that their votes will count. “We are appealing to critical stakeholders such as traditional and religious leaders, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and the media to sensitise the youth against violence with a view to conduct peaceful elections,” he said. The REC reiterated that political parties also have a role in mobilising youth groups, women and persons with special needs to come out and vote during the elections and adhere to the rules. Also speaking, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Operations, Bauchi State Command, Mr Bello Shehu said the command had trained its personnel on how to secure peaceful election. He said the command would deploy effective strategies to provide adequate security during the electioneering campaigns and other political activities across the state. He, however, said that political and candidates did not provide their campaign itinerary to the security agencies for proper supervision, control and protection. Shehu urged politicians and the people to be law abiding in expressing their political beliefs and their choice of political parties. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports th heads of security agencies and representatives of political parties, media, CSOs, National Orientation Agency (NOA), among others.