* How Nigerians survive hardship is mystery *Election will hold except govt compromises it *How Obasanjo sealed the coffin of Atiku’s political career *Beware of fake prophets * How Christians manipulate of old and new testaments *Why any new businesses apart from farming in Nigeria will crash WorldStage Newsonline– Over the years, many Nigerians have always been waiting to hear what the men or women of God are claiming to have heard about the vision of God for the country. This political period, few weeks to the general election is not on exception. Even those that are not interested in prophesy cannot escape the moods and discussions around them about the real and spiritual fortunes of their country. As for Reverend Apostle Samson D. Albert, the Primate of St. Peter’s Cherubim and Seraphim Band, visions do change such that what God revealed some months ago sometimes would have changed to the extent that whoever ran away with it without going back to verify could be misled. In fact, the Iwopin, Ogun Waterside born shepherd told WorldStage Television that he once had a vision that the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu would have committed suicide if he had lost the presidential primary of his political party. But Apostle Albert who has the headquarters of his Church at Iwopin, Ogun Waterside where all members of the church converge for annual programmes, and branches in Lagos and in Diaspora, said things had changed now that the vision he saw was that only if Tinubu wins the presidential election that there will be no crisis in the country. Apostle Albert who was anointed an apostle at thel age of 19 and has been shepherding his spiritual flock for close to 40 years, spoke about many issues including how Obasanjo sealed the coffin of Atiku’s political career, the assurance that  elections will hold in the country except government doesn’t want it to hold. He also spoke about the danger of fake prophets, how Christians are manipulating of old and new testaments to suit their purposes, why any new businesses apart from farming in Nigeria will crash among others. ONLY APC VICTORY CAN GUARANTEE PEACE Apostle Albert who had his primary school education at St. Peter’s Anglican Primary School and his secondary education at St. Kizito High School both in Iwopin declared that he could see many things happening before the year runs out that would make Tinubu overcome his challenges. He added that he had seen positivity in what they were doing that were quite different from what he initially saw. On Tinubu, he said, “The Lord said he would not even emerge because they will scatter everything. And he told me further that if care is not taken they will frustrate him to the extent of committing suicide. “God said he will want to commit suicide because he will feel so humiliated. But I could see that before the year runs out many things would have happened and the man would have crossed that road. “I begin to see positivity in what they are doing that’s quite different from what I saw then.” Speaking further on the coming general elections, he said he had asked from God which party or presidential candidate would emerge winner when some politicians came to him for spiritual revelation. “The Lord told me I should not be expecting somebody like Jagaban,” he stated. Continuing he said: “I replied God that, but the man is good. To me I see some goodness in him when it comes to politics. He’s a politician par excellence. “I then asked God what we do. The Lord said if we vote and he eventually emerges winner, Uh! The Lord said he would not even emerge because they will scatter everything. And he told me further that if care is not taken they will frustrate him to the extent of committing suicide. “But the present thing I know of the political party is that if APC emerges, there will be peace in Nigeria, but if any other party should emerge, there will be crisis. Nothing can change that, there will be crisis. APC is the only party that will emerge and there will be peace. That’s all I can say for now.” On the fear that the general election might not hold, the C&S clergyman said he believed the election would hold if government wanted it, declaring there’s no crisis presently in the country too strong to jeopardize the elections. “However, it all depends on the government itself, it’s government that’s the problem. If they don’t want the election to hold, it’s left to them. If government does not have hand in it, there’s no crisis that can stop the election from holding. FAKE PROPHETS “Most of the men of God claiming to be prophets are gamblers, charlatan and at best, mere seers,” according to Apostle Albert. Though the cleric admitted it’s possible for some prophecies not to come to pass because of intercession by men of God through prayers, he stated that some of them failed in their prophecies due to involvement in many areas not sanctioned by God. Apostle Albert, a prolific writer and spiritual songster who had published almost a thousand soul-piercing hymnals and a book comprising wise words and parables titled ‘Wisdom Nuggets’ who also has thousands of composed choruses said: “Most of them that claim to be prophets are not. Most of them are gamblers and seers. Some prophets want to be everywhere. He wants to enter politics, football, media, church and everywhere. “A true prophet won’t have the chance to be everywhere, God will only direct you as to where to go and it’s in that place God will be talking to you and updating you.” Giving reason for his restraint from criticizing prophets with failed visions, he said there was a message he received about eight months ago that didn’t come to pass because many things changed when he prayed. Supporting his position with both personal experience and biblical references, he stated: “Well, I won’t criticize anyone, but by what God told them, it may not come to pass. Why? I just said something that I received certain message about eight months ago and many things have changed. “Somebody may come to you being a powerful man of God asking for your intervention in preventing something from happening. Then you pray unto the Lord on that person’s behalf and God changed it. “Those who have prophesied on the thing to happen and discovered it didn’t happen may be let down. But it sometimes happens like that. “But in any case, the main thing that that thing must happen is not something a prophet must be manipulating to happen. It’s never fruitful to be manipulating messages. “In the Bible, God told Hezekiah he’s going to die but he prayed and God added 15 years that he would live further. But if we look at the bible critically, we’ll find that it has its own repercussion for change to any prophecy. “For example, Hezekiah didn’t really enjoyed the redemption (irapada) God granted him. So, if God had determined something, let’s leave it at that and pray for peace, for God to do whatever he has promised to do.” HOW CHURCHES, MOSQUES WORSEN THE COUNTRY’S PROBLEMS With liberal-centrist world outlook, Apostle Albert who remains a sensational philanthropist to individuals both within and outside his Church also reacted to the contradiction of the pervasive evils in the country in spite of the overwhelming presence of religious institutions like churches and mosques. According to him, religious institutions are contributing more to the problems of the country and are not making expected impact. He argued that if churches and mosques had expected impact, politicians, professionals, government officials among others who belong to any of the two major religious bodies would not be as bad and unaccountable as they are. “We’re supposed to be Christians in our life styles, characters, conduct and spirit,” he claimed, adding “If we have these attributes, people will naturally know what’s right and wrong when they observe us. “Everyone, whether politicians, professionals, government officials belong to one of the two most practiced religions. You will only find very few who don’t belong. And religious leaders are not even speaking in the conduct and character of their faith. “There’s no fear of the lord. First of all, who are the Christians? We have to get that. We have to know the attributes that make one a Christian. “In fact, we don’t have Christians, because if we have Christians they must have impact no matter how little. Everybody is just talking and behaving anyhow. “One day in my local government when I was still at home, a politician came to me and I told him the truth, saying if you want this and this, this and this are what you have to do. And he said, he would do it. And he came to me for prayer and spiritual guide. “He was in the church for 21 days without leaving the compound for one day. And when the man won the election, he was doing all he promised. And he was coming to me from time to time for prayers and spiritual guide. “But later they conspired against him and God intervened with miracle on his behalf. After his victory, he never forgot all that I told him. “One of them is that, he must never revenge, no matter the offence against him, but to look out for his enemies and do something for them. And that he should bring the whole town and local government together and do the right thing. “To the best of my knowledge, the man did it and we know the importance of it. Because of the man, I wanted and I almost joined politics since he showed himself as a good example of how politicians should operate politics. “You can go to my local government and verify what I’m telling you. That’s what we call Christianity; believing in what people says or do. But today, I’m sorry to say that when you look at the Christian world, you will see that we’re not Christians. “ Apostle Albert lamented that Christians would not say the truth and be lying at the altar, the very sanctuary of God, and dishing out false prophecies. He declared that if people don’t have that fear that God is everywhere and so conduct themselves truthfully, they’re not Christians. He added that if people are’ truly Christians and have the spirit working in them and accept that truly Jesus is their Lord and saviour as well as believe in him, there will be less problem in the society. MANIPULATION OF OLD & NEW TESTAMENTS On the practice where some Christians pay little emphasis on the Old Testament, claiming that it’s no more binding, he said, “My position is simple. The old and the new testaments are both rules and laws from God. Old Testament is like a foundation and the New Testament is the upper edifice. Without the Old Testament the New Testament cannot stand. The old is the foundation upon which the new is built and they are working hand in hand. “The only problem is metamorphosis. That’s all I can say about it. It’s a process of changes and the changes cannot be comprehended by human wisdom. It’s only the Holy Spirit that can tell you ‘this is where I’m going, if I get there I will give a mark and then you take it from there.’ If you’re there, that’s how far you know and your assignment is off. Then keep off. Don’t be telling us what’s ahead of us, another person will take it from there. “Moses didn’t know the road to where he was going until he was on the road. There was a time he got to the bank of the ocean and he didn’t know what to do. He didn’t know God will pave a way in the sea and God did that. “That’s how it’ been happening, even at this present time, and with what Jesus told us, many things have changed. We should be looking at the sky to know that many things have changed and that there have been developments. Nowadays, you find Christians praying that some people should die. Is that Christianity? It’s the millennium men of God that devised that. In Yoruba land it is call ‘epe’ (cursing). “Whereas Jesus wants us to love, like and help others no matter the situation. Even when Jesus was being persecuted and beaten, he was still praying to God to forgive them. That’s what he has laid down for us. At this end time we’re in a critical situation that requires our prayers rather than cursing. Even those praying for others to die, are they clean or guiltless before God, including their pastors? Some hymnal books even attest to un-holiness of saints despite that we see them as holy. We don’t know anything about God, that’s why we criticize old, new testaments and everything.” MANY MORE YEARS OF HARDSHIP AHEAD Talking about the current hardship in the land and the hope for a common man, he said, “I have prayed against it and God told me there’s nothing we can do. In many situations there’s nothing the citizens can do if the government is not doing the right thing. That’s why the position of God is for the citizens to respect or give honour to their heads. “Christians or men of God are the one to teach our children and members how to behave, do things and how to speak. That’s the reason we have to be mindful of what we say. We are used to calling our leaders names and labeling them bad, but when another set of leaders assume positions they do worse. Take for example the case of Obasanjo. There’s nothing we didn’t call him; from thief, fraudster, bastard, dictator, saboteur etc. And now, are the ones there today better? “I called some people and reminded them of their abuse of Obasanjo back then that he spent eight years to bury Nigeria. I asked them how many years has it taken the current leadership to crush Nigeria? That’s the society. “Sorry that I will be digressing a bit. In the land of Israel, the sons of Eli committed certain sins while the citizen didn’t say anything. It got to a point that God punished Eli and his sons. They were killed in a war and Eli died of shock when he heard the news of the death of his two sons. And later they had Samuel as the head and his sons did the very same thing, even worse than that of Eli’s sons. Israelites began to grumble that they needed a king and not theocracy system of government again. God gave them king and told Samuel not to be angry over his people’s request, letting him know that it was Him, God they molested, insulted, provoked and not Samuel. And God punished the Israelites for challenging their master. Why did he not punish Samuel or his children? It simply means they didn’t challenge, God fought for them. “In Nigeria we are fighting for ourselves because we don’t know God. In the 1970s that I came to Lagos, things were better. We didn’t have churches as we have them today. In fact I don’t know what to say. I want to be very careful, I don’t want to criticize people because you won’t know who God called or who God didn’t call. But if God called you, you must know he called you and stay where you’re called. Some people have derailed by trying to emulate another person. In Nigeria today people see rich men of God as the ones God called. If you don’t have money they don’t see you as called by God. So for common man in this critical situation, there’s nothing. I said it in year 2020 that 2021 would be tough and next year will be tougher than this. Many people commented and said all sort of things. In Nigeria there’s nothing people will not criticize. They just like to talk and abuse out of ignorance, some of them under the influence of drugs. And there are some people that when they get angry with you, either on phone or on any medium, you’re doomed. But all these things are what we don’t realize that for God to have taken somebody from the scratch to be number one citizen of the country and we don’t exercise any restriction of talking to that person anyhow is sin. But I know that with prayers, God knows what to do for the masses. They will cope because the way I’m seeing it, there are more years of hardship and suffering for the citizens, not two, three, or four years to be honest with us. But the common man will survive, though I don’t know how they will survive. Some years back I used to fuel my generator with N5,000, but today it costs me N24,000. There are many countries in Africa that are not better off and yet they’re surviving. God will give the common man knowledge to survive by the special grace of God.” ONLY FARMING BUSINESS WILL NOT CRASH NOW IN NIGERIA Apostle Albert also x-rayed the business climate in the country and advised people to embrace agriculture as the only saving grace, saying every other ones will fail. “ The challenges have been funds and finance. Many people wanted to go into agriculture but they didn’t have fund to do it. The society is not even helping. But I will just advise that they can start from anywhere. “I just gathered some guys quite a week ago and was talking to them on how to survive. I told them not to be saying government isn’t good or this country isn’t good because saying so means you’re cursing yourself. Rather, look at any area and subscribe to it, you will make it. And we’re trying to start something little by little. The most challenging thing is that some people don’t have the opportunity of space in their backyard to farm or raise animals. But even if they don’t have the opportunity they can join hands with others. There are some children of rich men who have the opportunity and not doing it, you can approach them for use of space available on their landed properties and you will survive. That’s what I’ve seen with all my experiences.”