The Federal Government has inaugurated its Project T-MAX, a Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) programme in Edo, aimed at adding value to the lives of two thousand  residents in the state. Fela Bank-Olemoh, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Education Intervention, said the project was already running in six other states across the country. Bank-Olemoh, who spoke at the launch of the project in Benin, said the website for Edo residents to register for the project had also been opened. “Edo is the last state that we are launching the project and the aim is to empower our youths and also empower local communities. “We are going to be training two thousand Nigerians resident in the state in different skills such as solar instalation, tiling, cosmology and Digital skills”. He said the Federal Government was partnering with the state government and the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) as the implementation agency. “We are looking at young people that want to improve themselves and learn skills we want to offer. It is already running in Lagos, Ogun, Enugu, Kaduna, Nasarawa and Gombe and Edo is the seventh state “The aim is to improve people and we are working through about 27 TVET centres in Edo. The centres will be paid directly by ITF. He added that the T-MAX project team would monitor the project to ensure its success. “The key thing here is not that we are training people but for the people to understand the importance of the training. “Over 500,000 applicants applied in the six states we are running and over 13,000 persons were selected. “Our hope is to scale up this programme, this is a pilot and from the feedback that we have gotten, we need to expand,”  he said On her part, Edo Commissioner of Education, Dr Joan Oviawe, commended the Federal Government for selecting the state as a beneficiary of the project. She described the T-MAX project as an opportunity given to youths to learn skills that would make them self sufficient and employers of labour. A TVET trainer, Mrs Juliet Akpovona, Managing Director, D-Xpestz Computer Tech, said the project would promote peace and security in the country as youths would be moved out from the streets. Akpovona said “it is a welcome idea as we have been looking forward to such a programme that will take youths out of the street. “We, however, expect that the government will support positively,  by ensuring that the right persons will be selected for the programme so that its essence will be met.”