*Nigeria designed to keep failing without falling *Country at tipping point of anomaly *God doesn’t want Christian, Muslim, religious govt * It’s insanity to go ahead with 2023 elections * Religions behind inhuman history of bloodshed WorldStage Newsonline– Founder and Shepherd of Livingwaters Unlimited Church of Christian Guild, Pastor Oladimeji Thompson is very sad over the undeserved backwardness bedeviling Nigeria as a country. Mr. Thompson in an interview with WorldStage Television, who rued the situation of the country after a review of how the country came into being anchored the problem of development on foundational hypocrisy, affirming that the Nigeria was designed to keep failing without falling and that those who designed the country were not surprised we’re where we are now. According to him, there’s nothing going on that’s not expected and that Nigeria has arrived at the point of maturity which gives no room for anybody to be blaming another. Suggesting solution to challenges facing Nigeria, he declared: “So it’s time for Nigeria to wake up and start thinking for itself, that’s the only thing. “There’s something called deterministic chaos, that’s what the country was designed to be. But we’re not the only one; many other countries had been like this before. But we have reached where they called the tipping point where we have to mature fast, stop blaming anybody, realize that the way we are fighting, the way we do politics, the way we’re divided, the way we don’t trust one another, and that the way we’re violent in communicating one another is symptomatic of a people who are programmed to be like that. “So, we need to wake up. The only complication in the story is this: we don’t need to talk long. The complication in the story is that Nigeria is finding itself in existential threat as we’re speaking right now. Of course you know the greatest threat of all is what you know. So we need to wake up.” HUMAN GOVERNMENT THAT RESPECTS PRINCIPLES OF THE KINGDOM OF GOD On the ceaseless complaints by the faithful of bad governance while they refrain from participating in politics, Pastor Thompson argued that God didn’t want a Christian, Muslim or religious government, but a human government that respected the principles of the kingdom of God. He asserted that it’s very immature and myopic when the traditional definitions of politics excluded contention. He stated that “The leadership of the church needs to know one thing, that there can never be darkness except in the absence of light. Darkness has never belong anywhere except there’s absence of light. “So if you’re supposed to be the custodian of light you’re the city built on the hill, you’re the light of the world. “There’s a need for us to take responsibility that if there’s darkness it’s because we didn’t shine as light, and I will break what I mean by that down. “When we talk about light shining and darkness not comprehending it, the word ‘contend’ is the same as the word politics. So what you’re going to find out is that we’re actually instructed to contend for all of it. “So, it’s very immature and myopic when you find all these traditional definitions of politics not including contention. But I will tell you the only that you will report that may be new to the church in Nigeria: the truth is God does not want a Muslim government or a Christian government. God does not want a religious government. “Human history would have taught us all those lessons by now. What God wants is a human government that respects the principles of the kingdom of God. What does that mean? It means God allows every man to make a choice as long as you know the consequences of your choice. There’s no compulsion, no coercion.” The pastor observed that one interesting thing about Nigeria was that it had the opportunity to be of global influence given its balanced religious composition such that if it offered the model of the kind of government that came upon Jesus Christ, nobody would be able to resist it. “No Christian, no Muslim can resist a government that respects human life. A government that’s laced with kindness, consideration and in which leaders serve as stewards rather than oppressors. A government that upholds equity and justice,” he added. Still speaking on interesting things about Nigeria, he recalled thus: “Let me even tell how interesting this is. For you to know that God is not a partial God, on the 7th of October, 1960, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa made a speech at the United Nations’ General Assembly. If you go and look at the closing chapter of his speech, he foreknew Nigeria and Nigerians. “He foreknew they were not fools. The only problem was that they were liberation leaders that the colonial masters did not allow to lay the foundation. So they knew there was no foundation. “But they were praying that the future generation would provide the foundation fathers of Nigeria. That’s where we are now. Then what did Balewa advised in 1960s? He said there’s something called eternal truths. “At this time we need to protect that phrase because some Nigerian politicians and mischief makers are already trying to mess up the solution that Tafawa Balewa mentioned. And once you listen to them you know they don’t understand what that man was saying. “Now let me explain what he was saying. What he was saying in the 1960s was, he mentioned that on the stroke of the midnight Nigeria gained its independence from Britain, he then mentioned, diplomatically, that there’s going to be war, troubles and fighting but that when we were ready for election, we should embrace the principle of eternal truth. “What’s eternal truth? Some call it universal truth, which when you break it down means the need of every man, whether Hausa, Yoruba, Ibo, Ibibio or any other, is universal. “So the truth is, if your needs are universal and you position a government to supply the basic needs, it then aligns with what’s called Maslow’s hierarchy of needs. That is, government provides for all those things and provides the platform for all those needs to be met. “There will be no cause for fighting because you will have the freedom and liberty of your religion. First of all, your potentials will be developed to the maximum; the natural resources will be well developed and utilized for the welfare of the people. “So the truth is that Nigeria now has an opportunity to lay a foundation that’s better than American democracy. The American democratic republic is better than the Westminster model of the UK. “We actually have the opportunity right now to start thinking to tropicalise governance but at the same time climatise it with internal truth. Every child that is born is not born an American or Briton or anything before they invest in child in a nation. “There’s something called enculturation. The process that in Nigeria was deliberately weakened by colonial masters such that what it takes to produce in Nigeria is weaker than the enculturation of the Ibo or the Yoruba and so on and so forth. “So what we need now is to produce a stronger enculturation than what the colonials produced. We make sure that the new identity has more advantages to be a Nigerian than to be Hausa, Fulani, Yoruba, Ibo, Edo or whatever. “If that is put, we need to have the thinking in our heads. The advice is very simple; the country is facing existential threat right now. The hydra of terror is already infested in this political process that even a child can see that. “Rather than watch Nigeria grow and collapse or watch the bloodshed of youths and all that, elder statesmen, patriots, front liners and iconic leaders in the country should gather themselves together, talk to the federal government and say we need or plead what’s called the Doctrine of Necessity. “Instead of going into the chaos that’s ahead where there’s going to be a lot of bloodshed, killings and needless confusions, why don’t we have direct intervention now? We just need three months to put a correction to all the gaps in our foundation. We just need to reprogram the nation with internal truth, and it doesn’t need to be expensive. “The founding fathers of America were just about eight people. So nobody can resist what the outcome is and we have a lot of brilliant Nigerians who research all these things.” Mr. Thompson said it’s up to the church to take the lead to bridge the gap between it and the mosque to explain that the country needed a kind of governance that’s not Christian, Muslim, or religious, but one that respected the value of a human being the way God expected it. He assured that Nigeria would become the foremost nation in the world within four to eight years if there’s governance that encouraged, protected the young and the disabled with massive potentials. A TOXIC PRESIDENCY Assessing the suitability of the three leading presidential candidates; Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi of APC, PDP and LP in that order, Pastor Thompson declared them are all fit and capable for the office of the president but that the problem is with the system. “There’s nothing wrong with any of those candidates but there’s something wrong with the system, and it is insanity. And I want you to quote this, that it’s insanity to know there’s something wrong with the system and you still go ahead again in the usual process, knowing that no matter who is elected, the system will destroy the person,” he stated. He advised that any wise country right now would not waste citizens’ time on saying who’s better, but that certain steps should be taken to correct the systemic flaws that encourage corruption and weakness of the system to stop being the fools. He gave an example of why the system is weak, saying Nigeria is reckoned as two countries from outside the country and it’s still being in foreign policy as southern and northern Nigeria from 1914 till now, labeling the approach and the country’s deliberate ignorance of it as stupid. He said: “There’s nothing wrong with any of those candidates, but there’s something wrong with the system, and it is insanity. And I want you to quote this, that when you know that there’s something wrong with the system, you still go ahead again in the normal process knowing that no matter who is elected the system will destroy the person.” Opening his mind on what he thinks some of the leaders should be doing to put the country on the path of progress, development and peaceful co-existence, Mr. Thompson expressed surprise that Tinubu could be chasing what he termed toxic presidency instead of being on the board of founding fathers giving the lead and influencing political players in running the affairs of the country appropriately. He expressed similar disposition about Atiku wondering why he too should settle for the toxic presidency that could take his life if the country truly adjudged him faithful enough to the cause of the nation and he’s offered the opportunity to become one of the founding fathers. INSANITY TO GO AHEAD WITH ELECTIONS With the unceasing onslaughts by terrorists in the north, secessionists in the south-east and muted self-determination activism in the south-west, the nation is undoubtedly confronted with daunting insecurity which has become intractable in spite of the federal combat efforts. On the security threat, Pastor Thompson was asked if he shared the fear that the general elections might not hold because of it. “It’s insanity for anybody to go ahead,” he responded, adding: “Right now, if you hear the insecurity report in Nigeria, you don’t need to be a nuclear scientist to know that value of life is zero. “Let me give you a good scenario: if a nation has a situation where daughters are being impregnated just to sell their babies, young ladies are willingly being impregnated to carry pregnancies and sell their babies and it’s all over the country and it’s a thriving business. “If there’s a country where young people are walking across deserts to escape the nightmare of the nation they find themselves; if a country has girls who are crossing oceans in leaky boats with many of them dying drowning in oceans just to go and serve as prostitutes in Italy and other European countries; If a country is faced by a secessionist system like that of the terror hydra that’s killing people all over the country; if a country is faced with a situation where it’s economy is based on devaluation of currency that’s obviously orchestrated from the global community and doesn’t even know how to decimalize and bring responses; if a country is facing endemic corruption problem, we should know that there’s a time to call everybody to order because the obvious is ahead.” He sounded a warning that God was going to hold accountable the elders, statesmen and self-centred people all over the place in Nigeria, especially, according to him, those who have made little bit of money through fraud and deception and deprived innocent citizen their right to the fair share of the national commonwealth. Expatiating on his warning, he said: “There’s what is called deceitfulness of the rich, who think they are safe. I want you to put it on record that God is going to ask them why we allowed the bloodshed of millions in the days ahead when we could have waited and ask ourselves where it’s leading. “It’s not leading anywhere else but chaos and destruction. Confirm existential threat, and tell me, who is deceiving who? Which hope is it that the economy is going to improve? What magic? Which presidential person has a plan that can bring the currency to one-one par with dollar?” However, he expressed that all these were possible, believing Nigeria had the brilliance and what it takes to be great, but that it needed to understand that eternal truth was what she needed to put in place. “And all of a sudden, within four years when we improve Nigerian public, then we create a future for our children and grandchildren. A failure to do so, I want you to mark my words, we will hold responsible all the elders who kept silent and were serving their own personal interests and their bellies instead of sounding an alarm right now.” The priest believed the only problem was that there’s a trust deficit between the people and the government, but they would ask government, approach them, the elders of the country from all over, coming together to handle it with the cooperation of the government and the existing democracy. He recommended that the process should take place within three months to bring out something that is totally African democratized hybrid that respects human worth. Expressing the believe that it’s very doable, he cautioned that the only problem Nigeria had were forces, corruption and cowardice, emphasizing that cowardice of the forces was the greatest. Elaborating on that he declared:“Compromising human standard is turning human being into a goat, and then confusion. If we take those forces away, we will move forward. I found out that many people don’t like investing in result. “And what people like us have done is that we’ve spent years in thinking, researching and there are many of us around the country that if we join hands together, we can produce a better country. “But if Nigeria chooses to go the way it’s going, I put it on notice to everybody that when your children are being sold slaves, when blood is flowing in your streets, when your life has been devalued, please let nobody say that God did not witness in your affair to avert what’s heard and hope for the destiny God prepare for us.” He affirmed that Nigeria was the foremost nation in Africa and could be the foremost in the world if her affairs were conducted rightly. INHUMAN HISTORY OF BLOODSHED Religious conflicts all over the world are the major sources of inhuman history of bloodshed. So when somebody handles a country in such a way to make religion be at loggerhead with each other, you must expect that a lot of bloodshed will come out of it, that’s is Pastor Thompson’s verdict on the contradictory growth explosion of religion and evils in the country. He sees devaluation of human being and human worth as the greatest definition of corruption, stating that finding solution to Nigeria’s problems was simple as long as there’s departure from devaluation of human worth. According to him, if enough people will sit down and rewrite the value to human’s worth, it will reset the leaders. Giving an example, he made a reference to a Yoruba philosophy and legacy called ‘Omoluabi,’ which to him is even more than a philosophy and whose antecedent is derived from the Bible. He narrated it thus: “The Bible says Jesus posed a question and a scribe answered and Jesus looked at him and said thou hast answered wisely, you’re not far from the kingdom of God. The Bible says when Jesus saw that the scribe answered with discretion, he told him ‘you’re not far from the kingdom of God.’ “If you read the Yoruba Bible version of the scenario, it says when the scribe answered, Jesus said that’s Omoluabi answer. Jesus doesn’t mean the scribe is in the kingdom of God already but that he’s not far from it. “What we’re saying in essence is, if without religion a people can value life and create a code of conduct that allows you to respect everybody else what then is the relevance of Christianity and Islam that create chaos as well as immorality. “That’s why in 1400 years of history, even with a pantheon of over two thousand gods, did you ever hear of religious conflicts before in the history of Omoluabi or Omo-Odua heritage? “Also like the Virginia in America’s history, all Nigeria has to do is aggregate what the different cultural nations and people of over 200 languages in Nigeria are bringing to the table because they all have something to bring to the table. “This is the time for Omoluabi of the SouthWest to come and say this is our own contribution: value of human worth. It’s worked for us. The day we begin to develop what we have in Nigeria, we will find there won’t be corruption problem. “In ancient times, if you had a business you put down your wares and people would come and buy, put the money there, take the change without anybody teaching anyone. What we don’t know in Africa is that we’d developed a credit system ever before the western world thought about it. “So if in the western world they’re using credit card today and we’re using wisdom to expand the activities, we can’t say we are not developing or are of good worth. “Look at Nigeria today, if you want to buy a house you must pay the whole thing, if you want to buy a car you must pay the whole thing. That’s the most stupid thing for anybody at this time of human development to be living like that because money is virtual, it’s just a unit of trust. “So, what we are saying is that Africans are not creditable people. Whereas what the western world has done is to borrow the Omoluabi principle and have now decimalized and digitalized it. Even then, none of their systems has ever equaled our own in ancient times. “When you put down your wares, somebody would come and buy, leave the right change with honesty and honour. None of their credit systems has ever equaled that level of efficiency. So why are we such a stupid people? “ I speak with emotion now, because we will easily develop not only Nigeria but Africa. Why are we such a stupid people? What are our universities doing that they’re not researching into decimalizing and digitalizing the Omoluabi ethos and heritage which is common to many cultural nations in Nigeria?” Pastor Thompson said these were the directions in which the country should be going, not going round in circuit like tools and be endangering the future of the children. He recommended that direct intervention was the answer so that Nigerian parents won’t allow their children get killed for nothing. “What I’ve been discussing with you is presently my preoccupation, perhaps we can get people who are sane and intelligent enough to actualize the idea,” he concluded.