WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria has recorded 90% drop in cases of Circulating Vaccine-derived poliovirus type 2 (cVPV2), according to the Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dir. Faisal Shuaib, said. Speaking at the 39th meeting of Expert Review Committee (ERC) on Polio and Routine Immunization in Nigeria in Abuja as experts finalize plans to eradicate any single type of poliovirus in Nigeria by the end of 2023, he said, “Today’s 39th ERC, what we are trying to do, is to ensure solidarity and collaboration that lead to the eradication of the wild poliovirus in Nigeria is sustained. We have worked with multiple donors and partners to achieve what we have been able to do in the last 6 years, in terms of maintaining zero wild poliovirus transmission. “In the last few years, we had circulating variant polio virus in some states due to low routine immunization coverage in those states.  We have seen that we have done a great job of reducing the number of those cases by almost 90%, that is a huge effort but we want to get down to zero cases of this cVPV2 like they are called. “Today as we have engagement with our partners we want to finalize to fine-tune those plans that will ensure that by the end of 2023 we would have completely eradicate every single form of polio whether it’s circulating variant or wide polio virus that we spent 6years without. We are not completely free of polio until every single type of polio is eradicated in Nigeria. “We have seen a situation because of integration between immunization and polio campaigns we are doing a better job of reaching more kids.” In ensuring lifelong protection from vaccine-preventable diseases, Dir. Shuaib advised parents and guardians not to wait until the health team comes to their house. “On a regular basis those schedules are available, parents are supposed to take their kids to the health facilities close to their homes and offer them the routine immunization vaccines. These vaccines provide lifelong protection from vaccine preventable diseases,” he said. “We are going to be working very hard to make sure we increase information and educate the populace around how important the vaccinations are, we are working with traditional leaders, religious leaders, community-based association but then very importantly is the media to make sure that people are aware of the importance of this vaccination, it is only when they are aware that people take action, but beyond taking action they are able to differ information that is correct and information that is clearly disinformation.” Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Expert Review Committee (ERC), Prof. Akin Osibogun explained that with the support of the government and the partners at all levels of governments, both national and state level, the Committee is making a lot of progress. Osibogun said there had been an 85% drop in the incidence of CVPv2 In Nigeria and the Committee are really getting close to achieving the goal of eradicating the CVP v2 In Nigeria. According to him: “While polio has been eradicated in Nigeria, there has been a lot of progress but of course, the challenge would be to continue to add all available resources to us as we have zero in on our goal.”