*Sorrow, tears and blood to get new notes, cash in Ekiti *Like Ekiti like Lagos WorldStage Newsonline– Although government has come out with reasons for the two most punishing issues of scarcity of new naira notes and fuel Nigerians are currently facing, reliable sources who preferred anonymity for fear of persecution and because they’re not authorized to speak on the matters have fingered politicians behind the crises. On new naira notes shortage, some banking personnel and Point of Service (PoS) outlets’ managers disclosed that contrary to popular belief the scarcity was as a result of the failure of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to supply adequate amount of it, the politicians were the ones mopping the much supplied to banks by tipping bank officials. According to one of them, politicians would come to banks suborning cashiers as well other senior officers of banks with tips difficult for even the righteous to reject, hinting that they sometimes offer to part with as much as N700,000 to N800,000 in exchange N5 millions. With offers as tempting as these, how will the new notes get to all intended destinations, the person asked? A customer of the leading banks in the country resident in Ibadan, Oyo State confided in WorldStage of his frustration in making withdrawal and the revelation he got from a friend official of the bank on why there’s scarcity of new notes. According to the customer, the banker friend revealed to him that a politician came to swap old N100 millions notes at their bank and gave them N10 million naira for the exchange after delivering it in bullion van at his house. While still gaping in surprise at the banker, the customer said the banker dazed him the more with a prayer to God for the scarcity to continue. The customer who expressed sadness at the reality of a man wishing fellow human being to suffer for him to get rich wondered at the kind of spirit operating in Nigerians. He lamented that upon all his efforts and trouble of withdrawing just N40,000, either in new or old notes, he didn’t leave the bank with a dime. Worse still, he said doing online transfer became like searching for a needle in haystack, as according to him, all attempts at doing transfer on different accounts in about six banks was impossible. How will the new notes get to the general public if some politicians and influential business tycoon keep bribing bank officials with mouth-watering amount to help them swap huge amount of old notes, he queried. According to the customer, the naira redesign had only proved that rich politicians will find easier doing money politics and buying votes than it used to be. The policy is self-defeating, he concluded. Meanwhile, activities of people hawking the new currencies for high commission while majority of public members couldn’t gain access to them are enough proof of credibility of the claims. How some individuals could get so much new notes to trade for huge commission is something many are still finding strange to understand were there no official collusion. Many reports had confirmed the activities of currency hawkers across the country charging heavy exchange or withdrawal rates ranging from N30,000 to N40,000 for a bundle of N1000 (i.e. N100,000). WorldStage discovered similar activities in Lagos and Ekiti states where people are presently facing the twin hardship of outrageous commission charges, non-availability of the news notes altogether. GETTING NEW NOTES, CASH HARDEST IN EKITI The situation in Ekiti State, WorldStage gathered, was worsened by lack of operative banks in many communities in the state due to past pervasive activities of armed robbers’ attacks on banks making it difficult for affected residents to have access to deposit or withdrawal transaction. For instance, there’s no operational bank after Ado-Ekiti, the state capital to Omu-Aran axis in Kwara State, a distance of about 60 kilometers and having about 15 towns and villages in-between. WorldStage discovered that residents in Otun, Ayetoro, Usi, Ido, Ora, Aye and Ifaki all in Ekiti State en-route to Kwara State have to go to Ado-Ekiti for any banking transaction, therefore providing fertile ground for racketeers of new currencies to make humongous profits from the practice and justify it. Justifying the act, some of them said besides having to travel over a long distance to get the scarce new notes, they also had to buy them at banks. As of now, neither collection of cash from ATM machine, POS operators nor doing online transfer brings any satisfaction. WorldStage’s journalist that travelled to the state was stranded for two days due to inability to secure cash for transportation back to Lagos until Thursday after having to borrow from a relative’s neighbor before he could make his way back. As a result of the problem, it was cursing galore from the people of the state on the country’s leaders, the ruling party, and the party’s presidential candidate in the coming February 25 general elections, railing that the May handover month was like eternity, but expressed optimism the situation would be better the moment the president leaves the stage for another to come in. LIKE EKITI LIKE LAGOS Regardless of Sunday, January 29th announcement of extension of old for new notes’ swapping to February 10th, 2023 by the Federal Government, there seems to be no succor as situations have remained as chaotic as it was before the extension. In many parts of Lagos State, large number of people could be seen even at wee hours of everyday queuing at banks to deposit old notes for new ones without desirable outcome. Rather, according to WorldStage’s investigation, banks were only accepting deposits without concomitant release of new notes. This resulted in customers scrambling for withdrawal at bank’s ATM machines that were not dispensing a good token of both the new and old notes, but even had to wait on those who came with old notes to deposit in exchange for transfer so as to go back home with cash at all. Speaking on the scarcity, one Mr. Toheeb Olaleye explained that he got to a bank in Ikotun area of Lagos at 8:30 a.m. to find that banks were only accepting deposit from customers but allowed to perform withdrawals ATMs that were not even dispensing cash. He explained further that when he asked at the counter what the problem was, he said the bank attendant replied they didn’t have new notes to pay them and that the CBN had instructed them not to pay old notes. Mrs. Lawal, a PoS attendant at Igando also corroborated the development, saying she had been to several banks in Ikotun without any of them granting withdrawals either in their banking halls or at their ATMs. She said she had to settle for collection of cash from people she met at one of the banks and made transfers to them. It wa same story with Alhaja Mubarakah Rabiu who explained that since Saturday when she tried using her ATM at Adura bus stop on Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway without success. She added that the same thing occurred when she tried using another ATM same day at Super Oja Oba area of Abulegba and then had to settle for PoS where the attendant charged N300 to withdraw N5000 new notes. Outside Lagos State, one Olajide Balogun from Ede in Osun State told WorldStage that they were facing the same problem of not being able to withdraw from banks or ATMs. Olajide narrated that he tried using several ATMs in Abeokuta over the weekend, but they all weren’t dispensing. He said he got back to Osun State to discover the same ordeals. He narrated that since the day the CBN announced the deadline for the return of old notes, PoS operators in Osun had been charging N500 for N5000 withdrawal. However, one Mr. Tunde Muritala  said he hadn’t noticed the ordeal because the last time he ever used bank was in 2020 during the Covid-19 era, disclosing that he had only been using online transfers and exchanged his cash with POS operators, therefore making the development of little effect on him. Mallam Adamu Mamuda, a bureau de change operator at Ijaye, Lagos said he hadn’t visited banks recently, but that his colleagues claimed not being able to withdraw from banks and ATM as of Saturday. But Mrs. Abibat Oladele, a PoS operator on Clem Road, Salolo area of Lagos disclosed that she didn’t really feel the biting scarcity of the new notes as her husband worked in a bank and made cash available, including new notes, to run her business. While Oladele was lucky not to share in the pain of new notes’ scarcity, Mr. Ifeanyi Agwu wasn’t as that lucky. When WorldStage met him at a bank, he said he got to there and noticed the development and decided to withhold N10,000 from the money he came to deposit so that he would have something to hold on to until the new February 10th deadline. A customer at GTBank Abule Egba was overheard lamenting over the crisis, blaming the CBN for not fulfilling its promise to withdraw the old notes out of circulation and churning out large amount of new notes, causing great panic. *Contributions to story from Misturah Ibiwunmi Tairu and Bernice Gift Nicholas