*Moneypoint, Opay, Kuda, Palmpay, VFD, others hailed for successfully transactions * PoS transaction charges jump by 400% WorldStage Newsonline– One man’s meat is another’s poison. That’s a saying that seems to capture the advantage financial technology institutions, also referred to as mobile banks, currently reaping over conventional banks from the crushing effects of federal government’s new policy of naira redesign. Whether sincerely or not, one of the canvassed reasons for redesigning of N200, N500 and N1,000 notes is to make the country’s economy and financial space cashless. But with the policy have come some unbearable, frustrating consequences of scarcity of new notes as well as inability of Nigerians to make adequate purchases or do digital transfer of money successfully. There’s report of a survey which showed that charges by Point of Sale (PoS) have peaked to 400% across the country from two weeks ago. Unfortunately the frustrations meted out on Nigerians by the policy have become a source of benefit to the mobile banking sector, whose operations have been buoyed and earnings maximized. While conventional banks have been having problem disbursing enough of the new notes they have also been faced with the trouble of money transfer traffic jam on their individual digital platform caused by the sudden resort to the digital system by majority of people who were otherwise used to cash-in-hand financial transactions. And because of the prevailing situation, people are not only fed up with unsuccessful digital money transfers, they are equally frustrated by struggles at banking halls to access their savings that always end up at nought. To buy basic consumption and domestic items has become almost an impossible thing to do because of the rejection of old notes, despite Supreme Court’s order against it, and the often unsuccessful transfer of money to pay for such items. This has led to popular questioning of the naira redesigning and the difficulty of not being able to do seamless digital money transfer if the motive of it is truly to make the country’s economy cashless. While the country is in this financial dilemma, some people appear less affected as they makes use of other online mobile banking applications that save them from the failure of money transfers done from banks to banks or other financial accounts during transactions. The effectiveness of financial institutions such as Moneypoint Micro Finance, Opay, Kuda, Palmpay, VFD Micro Finance amongst others in money transfer transactions has been hailed by people having their Apps on their mobile phone devices as according to them, hardly will any money transfer done on those platforms bounce back or fail to go through successfully. Mrs. Saludeen Zainab, a resident of Iyana-Iba area of Lagos is a users of one of the fintech Apps said She had never experienced any challenges since she logged into it in June 2022 and she would proud to recommend it others because, according to her, it serves much better than the conventional banks applications. But Mr. Adeshina Adefolarin uses Palmpay, another brand of mobile bank and rated its service performance at 95% over conventional banks. Confessing to Palmpay’s effectiveness he said he almost made it his main account for business. He added: “The bank is so convincing because I’ve had no cause to regret since I started using it. I enjoy its services especially at this time when other conventional banks have been flopping and frustrating me with network issues. But with Palmpay all of my transactions have been going smoothly. Asides from receiving and sending money, Palmpay gives me the opportunity to pay utility bills at discounted rates.” Adefolarin said the only challenge with Palmpay is that it doesn’t have walk-in branches like conventional banks. Another user of Palmpay, Mrs. Adeyemi Janet said being an agent of the financial outfit has been of great help to her business at this time of cash scarcity because it gave her the advantage of accessing cash to certain level of amount even though she was mandated to share it at N2,000 per individual to sustain her for a day. She disclosed that she charged N300 per a thousand naira because each thousand naira was given to her at a price due to scarcity of new notes but that she’s not bothered since it helped her remain in business, unlike other competitors who aren’t in partnership with mobile banking platforms. Also speaking on the advantages of mobile banking platforms over conventional banks, Mrs. Abibat Oladele, a PoS agent at Ijaye, Lagos says she uses Palmpay and Kuda microfinance for her business. “Before now the mobile banks have been serving me best in my business that I rarely use the PoS machine I got from Polaris Bank because of the swiftness of money transfer transactions and I have never had any challenges using them,” Mrs. Oladele stated. She recalled having disappointment for few hours with Palmpay only once as a result of network. She disclosed that Palmpay gives her discount on every transaction she makes aside charging her customers extra fee for services she renders. Faced by the challenge posed by the mobile banking outlets many of the conventional banks are already swinging into action to poach back from the emergent financial technology companies the profit-spinning banking instrument. Conventional banks are now reportedly positioning themselves for acquisition of some of the digital banking platforms and that bank managers are these days inclined to operate with sizable staff in order to invest more in the digital market to the point of taking over completely any fintech outlets they could lay their hands on.