Prof. Micheal Ezenwa, a Clinical Psychologist at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, has advised Nigerians to see the current situation in Nigeria as a transition period that will be over in no distant time. Ezenwa is the immediate past president of Nigerian Psychological Association and Country Coordinator, International Consortium of Universities for Drug Demand Reduction (ICUDDR). He said the current fuel and  new currency scarcity had placed Nigerians on a difficult  pedestal but would ease with time. He said with good understanding of the reasons behind the currency redesign and assurance that the difficulty was a passing phase in Nigeria’s national life, people would come out greater. The university don said the massive queues at the banks and filling stations was due to unnecessary anxiety, advising that people should go for the items that would meet their immediate needs. “As a people,  we have survived a lot of social problems, the most recent being the EndSars demonstration. We shall also pass through this successfully. “The combined problem of cashlessness, fuel scarcity and high price where it exists is putting the masses through so much stress; as a people,  we have survived a lot of social problems, the most recent being the endsars demonstration. “If we look forward to a brilliant future, we can temporarily forget our present difficulties and go through them with optimism, it will lessen the impact of the present challenges on our health and overall welfare,” he said. Ezenwa said rather than subjecting themselves to excessive mental stress or civil disobedience, Nigerians should express their frustrations through the ballot box. He said Nigeria of anybody’s dream was possible but the electorate should consciously and collectively resolve to enthrone a leadership that would administer the country as a unit devoid of religious or primordial considerations. “I advise Nigerians to insist on voting the right person into the coming presidential election on Feb. 25. “We must vote for a new Nigeria, vote for a president that has no corruption or identity issues, we have the chance to make our country great again through the right use of the ballot paper. “If we fail to make the right choice, we shall pay very dearly for it “No country grows great without her citizens deciding for it,  so we must give our volition for a new Nigeria with needed  support,” he said.