Radisson Hotel Group has announced an addition to its collection with signing of construction of its first facility in Abuja to increase its hotels in Nigeria to nine. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agreements were signed on Tuesday in Ikoyi. Erwan Garnier, Senior Director, Development, Africa at Radisson Hotel Group and Asiwaju Tajudeen Owoyemi, Chairman, Avalon Intercontinental Nigeria Ltd signed the agreements. Avalon Intercontinental Nigeria Ltd, a hospitality construction procurement organisation is an industry giant and local owners of three Radisson Hotel properties in Lagos. Radisson Collection Hotel & Conference Center, Abuja marks the Group’s 9th hotel and 3rd Radisson Collection in the country, placing it firmly on track to achieve 15 hotels in Nigeria by 2025. The new-build, 249 room hotel will be the firm’s first luxury hotel in Abuja. Radisson Collection is part of the Radisson family of brands brought together under one commercial umbrella brand, Radisson Hotels, having properties in unique locations with facilities for Luxury lifestyle. Briefing the media after the official signing in Ikoyi, Lagos, the group explained uniqueness of the 10 floors luxury collection centrally located in Abuja. Erwan Garnier, Senior Director, Development, Africa at Radisson Hotel Group, said Nigeria and Abuja were identified as key markets for its expansion to 150 hotels across Africa within the next five years. “It is an honor to kick start the year by introducing our beloved luxury lifestyle brand for experience-driven travelers to the city of Abuja as its first luxury hotel,” he said. Ramsay Rankoussi, Vice President, Development, Africa and Turkey at Radisson Hotel Group expressed delight over its relationship with Avalon Intercontinental Ltd. “We are proud to continue our long-standing relationship with Avalon Intercontinental Nigeria Ltd, leaders in the hospitality industry with whom we currently operate three hotels in Lagos. “Sixty five per cent  of our hotel owners have more than one property with Radisson Hotel Group, which is a testament to our commendable owner retention,” he said. Asiwaju Tajudeen Owoyemi, Chairman, Avalon Intercontinental Nigeria Ltd, also expressed joy over the new addition. “We are delighted to be extending our partnership with Radisson Hotel Group with the addition of Radisson Collection Hotel & Conference Center, Abuja to our collective portfolio. “Together, we will be uplifting the hospitality landscape of Abuja by debuting a luxury lifestyle hotel offering like no other within the city,” he said.