Ouranos Technologies Limited, a provider of Information Technology (IT) infrastructure services, says it will provide two million dollars to boost enterprise solutions in West Africa. A statement issued on Tuesday by Joseph Aransiola, Managing Director of Ouranos Technologies Ltd., stated that part of the money would also finance the construction of a technology lab in Lagos, for IT analysis in West Africa. “The lab is a venture studio focused on building the products and solutions that will power the future of enterprise technology in Africa,” he said. Aransiola said the firm had since appointed Olusegun Maleghemi, a notable expert in the technology and innovation space, as Chief Innovation Officer for the project. “Maleghemi was Director of Incubation at the Nest Innovation Technology Park which provides support for startups building impactful solutions. “Africa is poised for tremendous growth in the technology space, and Ouranos Lab will play a key role in driving that growth. “I am confident that this investment will help identify and develop new technologies and solutions that will drive sustainability and growth for the enterprise technology industry in Africa. “Ouranos Lab will focus on developing innovative solutions in Data and Identity Security, Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning, as well as Connected devices. “It will also focus on Internet of Things (IoT), Blockchain application in the non-finance space, Business Process Reengineering (BPR) and Robotics Process Automation (RPA), amongst others. “The venture studio also intends to work closely with startups and entrepreneurs to bring their ideas to life by providing support in product development, funding, access to new markets and mentorship,” Aransiola said. The Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Ouranos Technologies Ltd, Mfon Okon, said that the company was looking to invest in the companies that are building innovative and scalable solutions. Mfon said that the choice of Olusegun Maleghemi as Chief Innovation Officer was strategic going by his extensive experience in technology and innovation. The statement quoted Maleghemi as pledging to work closely with the team to foster innovation in the African enterprise solutions space. “We have a strong team with a lot of expertise in technology and innovation who are dedicated to building products and solutions that will define Africa’s future. “We will focus on developing sustainable and scalable products to drive enterprise business growth,” he said.