A new tech-craft company, Skilharvest, has been inaugurated in the country to equip individuals with rapid skill acquisition and empower seven million youths worldwide. Mr Olatayo Ajiboye and Fikun Aluko, the promoters of Skilharvest, stated this in a statement on Sunday in Lagos. The statement said that the firm would offer short courses under four categories which include school of technology; school of construction; school of arts and creatives and school of renewable energy. It said new firm which would be holding live classes, also plans to add more courses in the future. The statement said: “The need for artisans worldwide is still growing, with the Nigerian market dominated by foreigners who remit N900 billion out of the country annually. “An initiative like this will equip Nigerians to be able to compete with the foreigners and earn good money. “The promoters believe that the strategic intervention will sometimes help to tackle the growing unemployment among youths in Nigeria, currently at 42.5 per cent according to the national bureau of statistics. “The training centre is offering a better option to popular online destinations for skills acquisition like Causera and Udemy because while learning on these sites, classes are delivered online as Skilharvest holds live classes. “Our commitment to making learning accessible is at the heart of everything we do, that is why we offer a variety of flexible and affordable courses so that everyone can access the knowledge and resources they need to succeed.” The statement explained that the online classes lack the accountability that makes live classes more effective. It said research showed that only 15 per cent of people had the discipline to complete online courses and receive the full benefit of training. It also explained that Skilharvest had been designed to run on project-based skills acquisition where participants would be offered hands-on training. It noted that the training guarantees proper transfer of knowledge with verifiable tangible projects for potential employees to access post training. It also said that courses on Skilharvest were designed to address local needs and fill a gap in the job market. It said participants were better equipped to find employment or start running their own businesses once they complete their skills acquisition programme. “The firm offers UI Design, UX Design, Front-end Development, Digital Marketing under the school of technology; content creation, photography and editing, video editing, fashion design under the school of arts and creative. “Also solar and inverter installation, energy audit and diagnosis, energy design, costing and procurement, electrical installation of solar energy under its school of renewable energy. “Others are tiling, painting and screeding, carpentry and fabrication under its school of construction,” it said.