The Director-General of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig.-Gen. Yusha’u Ahmed, has in his maiden visit to the Kaduna Orientation Camp advised corps members against embarking on unauthorised journeys, stressing that they could undermine their security. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the visit which took place on Saturday was the first by the director-general since his assumption of office on Jan. 30. Addressing the 2023 Batch “A” stream “I” corps members, who were currently having their orientation programme at the temporary orientation camp at the  Government College, Kurmin Mashi,  Kaduna, Ahmed said that unauthorised journeys would attract sanctions as enshrined in the scheme’s acts. He noted that his administration would continue to ensure that corps members enjoyed improved welfare and security. He stressed that the contents of the NYSC Bye-Laws would be applied on every infraction, adding that corps members must conduct themselves within the provisions of the law. “It is a thing of pride to serve your fatherland, but don’t risk your lives via unauthorised journeys. Be disciplined and prayerful. Also be confident of yourselves, do your work diligently and I assure you, nothing bad will happen to you. “Avoid crime, obey the rules and regulations in the camp, and respect your leaders”, he advised. The director-general specifically warned the corps members not to indulge in political arguments, but rather participate as unbiased electoral officers, by taking cognisance of the electoral laws during the forthcoming 2023 general elections. He also warned them against posting camp activities on social media, urging them to forward their complaints to the scheme’s management. The NYSC chief executive also advised the corps members to ensure that they left good legacies in their places of primary assignments and host communities. Earlier, in his camp situation report, the State’s Coordinator of NYSC, Mr Agbor Obim, said a total of 1,077 corps members,  comprising 407 males and 679 females were registered in the camp. He said the corps members were participating fully in camp activities and listed some of the challenges to include high cost of goods and services, hike in the price of fuel, inadequate accommodation , among others. NAN reports that the director-general presented a cow to the corps members, 200 plastic chairs and 10 standing fans to the orientation camp. The highpoint of the event was the visit of the director-general to the camp clinic and hostels, as well as a display of cultural dances by corps members. The NYSC helmsman also paid a visit to three corps members recuperating at the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna. The three corps members were transiting from Yobe to Anambra for their national service when they were involved in a motor accident in Kaduna. Ahmed prayed for their quick recovery and commended the hospital’s management for taking good care of them.