WorldStage Newsonline– The Board and Management of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company Plc. (BEDC) says it is considering alternative sources of power supply apart from the national grid. BEDC Managing Director Henry Ajagbawa said this on Friday when he led the team on a courtesy visit to the palace of Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse III in Warri, noting that the initiative would end the power problem in BEDC covering areas. The BEDC oversees distribution of electricity in Edo, Delta Ondo State and Ekiti. Ajagbawa explained that the consideration of the independent sources of power became necessary due to the constraints in the generation end of the electricity value chain in the country. The BEDC boss, however, expressed fears of non-payment for energy consumed by the customers in its franchise states. “I think Nigerians are tired of excuses. Everywhere you go there is no power and the era of explanation is long gone. “Today, we have constraints from the generation part of the value chain, we are getting less than 40 per cent of what we require to be able to sell to our communities. “The average customers do not care what happens because all they want is electricity. “There are alternative sources apart from the grid and we want to begin to engage those sources to see how we can begin to alleviate the problems we have today. “But the crisis of non-payment is also an issue. If am able to bring independent sources, can I get assurance that there will be payment,” he said. Earlier, the BEDC Board Chairman, Mr Kings Akuma, told the Olu that the BEDC team came on board in Sept. 2022, to rescue the company from the wrath and the wreckage that had bedeviled the company. “Our priority and focus is to pay homage to the first class traditional rulers in our franchise states of Delta, Edo, Ondo State and Ekiti. Olu of Warri Ogiame Atuwatse III welcomed the team, noting that he had an indepth knowledge of the electricity value chain and its numerous challenges. He called on the Federal Government to open up the electricity value chain for more participation and urged them to find solution to the infrastructural deficit in the value chain. The Olu admonished the management of BEDC to engage his subjects to make them have full understanding of how the alternative power sources would be operated. “I can assure you that once there is improved electricity services, the people will be more than willing to pay their bills,” he said. He prayed for success of the management of BEDC as they ventured into finding lasting solution to the problem of power in the state.