* Islamic fintech and Islamic finance sector in Nigeria are still growing * Fintech institutions not only for Muslims * Why Sukuk bonds are always oversubscribed WorldStage Newsonline– As Nigeria’s financial environment evolves into strong competitive activities, HalalVest Limited, a financial technology player with special interest for non-interest financing has stepped in to bridge the gap between conventional banking and ethical banking. Mr. Abdulazeez Oguntoyinbo, co-founder/CEO of HalalVest in an exclusive interview with  WorldStageTelevision for the Startups on WorldStage (#SoW) project admitted that Islamic financial sector is still at early stage of growth, but that it had a very huge potentials and validation that have spurred marked acceptability by the general public. Backing up the claim, he said: “If you look at it very well, the Islamic fintech and Islamic finance sector in Nigeria are still growing and at early stage. It has a very huge potentials and the validation is there for us. ‘If you look at how many Islamic financial institutions available side by side with alternative finance, it’s just five. Also talking about how many Islamic insurance companies, they’re not much. If you also look at how many Islamic management companies, how many of the pension products that are non-interest inclined? They are not many also. “So the market is still very at the early stage. But there is a lot of potentials in the acceptability. If you look at the recent Sukuk, the Islamic bond that was listed by Debt Management Office (DMO), you have a very huge acceptance from the public. “All these fintech institutions are not meant only for the Muslims, it’s for public benefit. It’s open to everyone, either Christians, Muslims, Hausa, Yoruba, Ibo, white, black etc. And that’s why you can see the Sukuk oversubscribed. “It’s not the first or second time it would be oversubscribed. So there’s a huge opportunity for its acceptance as we speak.” Oguntoyinbo who studied Business Administration at Yaba College of Technology, Lagos and after a cumulative six-year work experience with different mobile money and financial inclusion focused companies; started HalalVest said the company actually came out as a result of “our discovery of it at an early stage. We had that mindset of bridging the gap between the conventional and ethical banking, i.e the non-interest banking. So, it’s actually an Islamic fintech company with the mindset to aggregate the different non-financial products across non-interest financial institutions. “It’s also a digital market place to facilitate easy access to non-financial products across savings, investments, financing, pension, insurance, even across donations to ease access to payments. So we’re like one-stop shop to make easy access to non-interest financial products and services. “That’s what HalalVest is all about. We partner with non-interest financial institutions to help them lease their non-interest financial products on our platform, and earn a commission for facilitating that process. That’s basically what the company is all about.” Re-emphasizing that the mission of HalalVest remained the revolutionizing, digitizing and democratizing access to non-interest financial products and services, he disclosed they had already achieved some milestones. HalalVest, he stated, had been registered as cooperative multipurpose society, adding that they achieved that milestone last quarter which enable them to have minimum regulatory license to work with members to support them in accessing non-interest financial products and services across several non-interest financial institutions. “Secondly, we’ve also built strategic partnerships with several non-interest financial institutions. As we speak we are in partnership with SunTrust non-interest bank and been able to facilitate API integration to the HalalVest platform where people can have access to Sharia-compliant E-wallet,” he said. “The Sharia-compliant E-wallet enables them to subscribe to several listed products across non-interest financial institutions such as savings, investments, insurance, make donations for Sakat, sorakor and waff etc. “We also have partnership with Halal Takaful Nigeria, formerly called Conerstone Takaful. They’ve actually supported us. At the early stage even when the idea of HalalVest came and we’ve been able to run a pilot with them. “We sold over N3 million worth of their Takaful policies to validate the concept with the MVP platform of HalalVest before we started enhancing the new platform as we speak. We also have partnership with Lotus Capital. We had an agreement with them and we’re currently trying to finalize the pilot to have their products listed on the platform. “They are non-interest asset management companies. They actually played a crucial role in facilitating the Sukuk that was issued by the Federal Government. So we’re also partnering with them, and we have several other institutions like NASFAT, an Islamic organization with over a million members locally and in Diaspora. They even invested in our HalalVest. Oguntoyinbo who initially started with Esusu Africa Ltd, a fintech that provided platforms to micro finance institutions and cooperative societies that helped them move their customers from manual to digital and to scale up their operations digitally, further disclosed that his company also had access to different Lagos organizations like Central Mosque with which they collaborated in driving the non-financial products across the different central mosques around Lagos. Part of their achievements recently, according to him, was that they were in Kaduna for one month driving their products. “We actually partner with Association of Sakat and Waff operators of Nigeria on their second national conference which was tailored towards leveraging technology to drive collection of sakat. So while partnering with them we also tried to enhance the e-collection of bakat with HalalVest platform,” he stated. Another interesting milestone Oguntoyinbo said they achieved was the setting up another office in the north, that’s Kaduna, aside from the Lagos office. “We built a kiosk and also secured a standard office there. The kiosk will be like a quick service point to access HalalVest non-interest financial products across the cooperative arm,” he narrated. “We’ve also been supported by NITDA (National Information Technology Development Agency). Kudos to Minister Prof. Isa Ali Pantami for supporting HalalVest and several other startups. “We’ve been showcased internationally at the GITEX Conference which was actually used to meet potential investors, strategic partners and sponsors. One interesting thing about the GITEX exposure was that we’ve also applied in Dubai for fintech innovation license at the Dubai international financial centre (DIFC). “This international licence will give us international exposure and presence because it’s been subsidized and they have created enabling environment for fintechs like us to come and explore the opportunity to expand in the Middle East. “So we’ve initiated that process through the exposure of GITEX from the support from NITDA, and I think this has been a very influential goal we’ve had in the past year. We’ve also enhanced our technology platforms and we’re launching fully this month by God’s grace to the public with the new platform, because we’ve been running pilots with different non-interest financial inclusions based on their different products to send it on the platform. “Working with and aggregating different products have different kind of modalities in line with regulatory factors and other several customers’ mindsets and the likes. So, we’ve gone a long way and I believe what worth doing at all worth doing well. So we’re ready, we’re passionate to drive it. Some of these are our achievements. We’re yet not where we supposed to be but we will continue to drive and accelerate achieving our plans.” PAIN OF DIGITAL ILLITERACY, REGULATORY, FUNDING BARRIERS On whether HalalVest was facing challenges in building the concept, Oguntoyinbo who had a micro finance certification and programme from the Chattered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria aside being a Fellow of Institute of Islamic Finance Professionals and member of Association of Mobile Money and Bank Agent, affirmed there were several challenges that any startup would face, fintech or no fintech. On challenges, he disclosed as follows: “Any given startup will face challenges. In our case, some of these challenges are as a result of regulatory barriers, particularly as it relates to fintech. “What are these regulatory barriers? How is regulation going to affect what you’re trying to do? Innovation will always go far ahead of regulation but you need to be very conversant with the regulatory laws within the environment. “Even in Dubai, with their DIC there are a lot of their regulations we need to understand within that locality. So, part of the challenges we’ve been facing is working with these licensing, some of the non-interest financial institutions, meeting up with their requirements for them to accept us to list their products on the platform. “It’s really something that we had to work with their recommendations. Even, we are not directly licensed with CBN or NICOM, it’s only the cooperative licence we have. But we work with MOUs, we have partnership with non-interest financial institutions just to enable them enlist their products. They still manage all their portfolios and everything. So trying to meet up with regulations is very key. “We’re also trying to move closer to some of the regulators and we’re trying to understudy how we can also fit in. We are trying to explore the regulatory signboard of CBN to see how can be part of first squad. We are looking to see how we can work with NAICOM, SEC etc to see where we can play. That’s on the regulatory challenge, which is normal.” In terms of funding, Oguntoyinbo who had attended several courses at the prestigious Lagos Business School, giving him the opportunity to be a Tony Elumelu Entrepreneur and also a Live Africa Social Innovator, admitted they were still at the early stage and that it’s a product they were about to fully launch into the market. He said it’s all about trying to bootstrap with personal and family funds and friend’s support, explaining: “We are passionate about building a sustainable product so that when investors see the products they can even ask from the customers before they say they want to invest in us. “But it’s not easy trying to bootstrap, however we needed to validate the concept. That’s why it’s not been easy for us in the past one to three years, but thanks to our supporters for helping us to ease the bootstrapping. “The other area is in terms of working with customers. Digital literacy and non-interest financial literacy is very key and the capacity of people that understand Islamic financing is still very low and we need to do a lot of sensitization in the ecosystem generally on the benefits of Islamic and non-interest finance. “Like I said earlier, it’s not a Muslim or Islamic business, it’s a benefit for all. That’s why if you do your assessment across non-interest financial institutions you will discover that Muslims and non-Muslims are equal in participation, non-Muslim are even likely to be more. “So people are more concern about the benefit rather than religious sentiments. And we need to change that mindset and I use to say it. In the team itself the head of technology is Emmanuel, a Christian and he’s dedicated. It’s not about Muslim thing, but to give people orientation about the benefits. “If you look at other countries that are not Muslim, they are really buying into non-interest finance because of the benefit it would bring into their economy. If we Muslims fail to maximize the benefit and people that are not Muslim grab the concept and follow it, I tell you they will get it right. “So, trying to drive sensitization is one of the challenges and it’s a collective responsibility. We will also set up a department within HalalVest to drive the sensitization in collaboration with non-interest financial institutions we partner with.” HalalVest for now has few competitors, Oguntoyinbo said, citing the emerging status of Islamic and non-interest financial institutions in the country yet. He however disclosed that they have interesting competitors at international level that were even emulating them. He said: “It’s very important to know who one’s competitors are. I will say Islamic fintech environment is still very early in Nigeria, it’s still growing. I know a few competitors. “But we’re focused on carving our niche, and for us to be able to compete there needs to be propositions from competitors. We believe that will also enhance the ecosystem generally. So it’s normal, but as I said it’s still at the early stage. While conceding that government policies that apply to their sector have so far been good and preventive of malpractices, he appealed for relaxing the few that are strict as well as restrictive of unleashing of their potentials. Of the policies, Oguntoyinbo who has strong passion for tech entrepreneurship in driving business and tech innovation which he said led to the development of first company Esusu Africa Ltd. stated thus: “The policies that regulators are applying are very good. Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), NAICOM, PENCOM and CBN that regulates both the micro financial and commercial banking are trying. “We need to understand the concept of Islamic and non-interest finance because we don’t bank with interest or deal in businesses that are not Sharia-compliant since that’s where the principle of driving Islamic finance or non-interest finance is coming from. “So internally, there’s a policy and that’s why the CBN and NAICOM said they have advisory council of experts comprising of Islamic scholars and Islamic financial experts to guide, apart from operational framework, drive the process of non-interest banking and non-interest financial services. “So, the policies the regulators have actually applied are very good. If you are not careful some people will just bump into your WhatsApp and add you to fictitious or dubious investment groups and dupe you. Look at MMM where people invested to get 100% on their investment within a month. It’s not even ethical, it’s a scam. “This is one of the reasons these regulators put policies in place to prevent loss of funds and ensure ethical practices. So we’re in support of all the regulations that regulators put in place. “But what we also need to guard against is being too strict, we need to strike a balance. That’s why if you look at different ecosystems that are thriving like Dubai (UAE), Singapore and Malaysia, it’s because of their good policies and enabling environments they provided. It is the key, very seamless. “When we’re trying to file in for fintech innovation license in Dubai everything was online. And if you look at it very well it’s very important for you to be able to adhere to these regulations because it goes a long way in driving the quality of service offering. “This is what we’re passionate about. So in term of trying to align with it we find it okay. We’re are just positioning ourselves so that we don’t go pass our boundary and we do all that’s required of us not to run afoul of regulations. “As we speak we only have the cooperative licence and trying to drive cooperative banking, then we’re able to showcase the products of these non-interest financial institutions to users, agents can sell and earn commission from it on the platform. “Aside from that we’re also trying to be compliant with some of the regulatory measures. There’s National Data Protection Regulatory (NDPR) that we are aligning with as well as the ISO certification. These are the areas that even if you’re going for the licence you know you’re prepared. “Adhering to corporate governance and Sharia provisions is what we’re also passionate about. As we speak, we have a dedicated department for Sharia compliance that oversees any product we list on HalalVest platform. It needs to be approved by Sharia compliance department. It’s also an area we are conversant with. “But we’re also trying to plead with the regulators not to be too strict with startups like us to be able to play within the ecosystem.” Asked on the motivation to forge ahead with the venture, he said it’s the impact they were making as well as the desire to leave a legacy and footprint for Islamic financial technology. “First, “it’s about impact. We know the reward of money will come but it’s between profitability and rewardability. Profitability is running a business, earning a living and being fine but rewardability is creating an impact,” he said. “If you compare the non-interest financial institutions to conventional financial institutions in terms of principles and benefits, you will discover the non-interest ones outweigh the conventional. I have giving examples of which Sukuk is one. “The impact of driving this project is what actually motivates us. We’re passionate about it and we want to leave it as a legacy and footprint for Islamic fintech. “Aside from the advantage, it’s still very early, the ecosystem is still emerging, particularly in Nigeria and Africa. So we’re trying to tap into that opportunity of being a potential for us to leverage on. This also drives the motivation for us to on it.”