WorldStage Newsonline– As ShapShap, a Nigerian logistics technology makes headway at developing innovative solutions focusing on Nigeria’s blossoming delivery market, it is also looking forward to provide jobs for as many Nigerians as possible. Mr Khalil Halillu, the CEO of ShapShap in an exclusive interview with WorldStageTelevision  for the Startups on WorldStage (#SoW) project said, “As you’re aware, one of the key challenges in the logistic space is the fact that it’s underserved, because there’s always more demand than supply, and the traditional method of making delivery is very inefficient. “Usually people use phone call method and the likes of paper-based recording which is cumbersome. So the whole idea is to build an App that is intelligence to make decisions on behalf of the drivers so that they can optimize their operations and operate in the most efficient manner.” Halillu said the company is looking to provide jobs for the average man, adding “People working on our platform should be able to complete about 15 deliveries on an average of daily basis, earn reasonable living. Not just delivering orders but we want to expand into things like address verification, home inspection and other kinds of errands for people basically.” To achieve that, he said the company had already established in two cities and planning to expand into two more by the end of the year as well as other parts of Africa very soon. Halillu admitted that ShapShap is not the only player working to address a multitude of issues in the fragmented African logistics market, but that the unique thing about the organization was that they had an optimized engine which did cross-puling that allowed drivers work from multiple platforms on the same App. “For us but we take orders from other partners for delivery. So it’s very unique. Usually most platforms only take their own orders but in term of ours we’re open to having handshake with other platforms so that drivers can concentrate since there’s no need for them to be chasing jobs, there’s always jobs for them on our platforms,” he said. Speaking on the major challenge confronting the business in the sector he mentioned getting talents to work in the field, saying, it “is very tough in Africa.” Halilu said Africa is losing such talents to western countries as Canada, United States and likes because they are able to remunerate them far better than what African countries could afford. He however said ShapShap intended to reverse the situation by building pipeline and a roadmap that put the best interest of people in mind as well as developing them for better future. “It’s all about having a clear roadmap and growth path,” he stated. Though he described market response to their operations as good, but sees the market as underserved as everyone was looking for solution that could solve their problems in the most efficient manner. “And so far so good, we’ve been having positive response; growing number of customers, a lot of referrals and the likes have been coming and so, it’s been positive,” he enthused. On how far he’d gone at realizing the business vision with regard to the need in the market, he disclosed that they had made over 1,200 deliveries in Lagos and Abuja and that they had a customer base of about 4,000 and still growing. He said: “I see that just as the beginning, but we have some reasonable track record and a deep good understanding of the market and we have a lot of technology, regulation and other industries’ partners. We just make sure we carry everybody along, because it’s all about consolidation, collaboration and it’s not something one can do alone because the market is big and one definitely needs other hands to be able to pull it through.” Halilu who started school in Kano and later moved to Malaysia to study Business and technology also studied International Business combined with Technology in the United Kingdom up to Master’s level. According to him, he returned to Nigeria to work with his family’s manufacturing company where he said he faced a lot of logistics challenges. He said it was the challenges that made him decide to mix his passion with problem-solving and wanted to dive into last mile delivery sector to solve the problems he saw with the use of technology. “So we do ShapShap together with my co-founder which is a tech solution that makes delivery efficient, sustainable and scalable for the African market,” he said.