Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun and two former Governors in the state, Sen. Ibikunle Amosun and Gbenga Daniel, have expressed satisfaction over the conduct of the 2023 Presidential and National Assembly election in Ogun. The trio spoke on Saturday in separate interviews after casting their votes in their respective polling units. Abiodun, who voted at Ward 3, Unit 2, Osanyin, Iperu in Ikenne Local Government area of the state, said that the exercise was orderly and peaceful. He commended the voters for their “impressive turnout and the orderly conduct” during the election process. “I hope what we have seen here will obtain in length and breadth of the state. “I commend INEC for the hard work. They have taken up more responsibilities and have been on top of their duties. “I am sure the election will go well. We have not heard about any crisis anywhere, it has been reports of peace from the field,” the governor said. He, however, said that the exercise was not without some hitches. Abiodun explained that INEC failed to provide enough identification cards for the agents of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). In his remarks, Daniel, who voted at Unit 032, Ward 4, Awolowo Avenue, GRA, Sagamu, also adjudged the exercise as credible. He noted that credibility of the voting process had been enhanced by the deployment of the BVAS technology. “So far, so good, this election has been peaceful and we are impressed by this,” he said. Daniel urged every eligible voters to come out and exercise their civic responsibilities. Also, Amosun commended the large turnout, as well as the peaceful and orderly manner of the conduct of the polls. He, however, expressed reservation at the delayed witnessed in the process because of the initial malfunctioning of the BVAS machine. “When I arrived at this polling centre, the machine was not working and I had to make calls to call attention to it. “We have been in queue for hours, but I thank God that the technical team of INEC came and repaired it and I have to wait until it was resolved and I have voted. “I am not rushing to go, am going to ensure that as many people as possible have the opportunity to exercise their franchise,” he said.