Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives, representing Surulere 1 Federal Constituency, under the All Progressives Party (APC) seeking to be re-elected has expressed satisfaction with the election process. Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives and candidate, Surulere 1, Federal Constituency for APC casting his vote Gbajabiamila also expressed confidence in APC emerging victorious as he voted at Ward 08, Polling Unit 014, Elizabeth Fowler Memorial School, Mercy Eneli St, Masha, Surulere, Lagos. The speaker of the House of Reps, said that the election had been peaceful, orderly, free and fair as well as credible. “People have come out to exercise their franchise and I am excited that we are going through this process and I hope that it continues like this till the polls close. “Every election every four years is pivotal and critical, because it is always a turning point which determines if we will move forward or go backwards. “During elections anywhere in the world, people make their decisions and determine where they want to pitch their tent. So, this is a defining moment for us as Nigerians,” he said. Gbajabiamila said that the party had done well under the circumstances and had also granted a lot of support, he therefore, believed the results would be favourable to his party at the end of the day. He advised Nigerians to not be swayed by a lot of what they saw in today’s world but instead elect their leaders through their track records. “In other words we should be smart enough to look at what every candidate has to offer, what is important in any democracy is the track record of the candidate,” Gbajabiamila said. Mr Kola Owolabi, Labour Party electoral observer, said that the turn out had been massive and the process peaceful, to which he gave kudos to the Independent National Electoral Commission. (INEC). Owolabi also noted that the BVAs machine made the process fast, which made the electorate happy because within a few minutes, they were done. “I am happy with the process and only hope that the outcome of the elections is favourable to my party,” he said. Mrs Ejide Olaoshebikan, a 78-year-old voter, who was recently widowed said that she came out to vote in honour of her husband, who was looking forward to the elections. “The election is violence free, and fair and I am happy to have taken part in it, to honour my late husband’s wish,” she said. Also, Mrs Hannah Umoh, a 74-year old voter, said that the election was orderly and peaceful. “I am also thankful for the process, which was fast because I can’t stand for a long time on queue,” she said. Also the INEC presiding officer, Miss Tosin Ola, said that the election was free and fair. Ola said that the parties represented by their observers were APC, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour Party (LP). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the elections was peaceful and orderly and that people came out en mass to cast their vote in support of their candidate.