WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria has confirmed that between 2015 to date, no fewer than 2500 Technical Aid Corps volunteers were deployed to African, Caribbean Pacific (ACP) countries under its Directorate of Technical Aid Corps (DTAC). The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama who disclosed this in Abuja at the 22nd edition of the PMB Administration Scorecard Series (2015-2023) organised to project the achievements of the Buhari government listed the countries where they were deployed as Benin Republic, Belize, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, Jamaica, Liberia, Niger, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, St. Kitts & Nevis, Tanzania, The Gambia and Uganda. Onyeama said through DTAC, the Ministry generated employment for many Nigerians, while many are still waiting for clearance from other recipient countries. “Since the inception of the administration of President Buhari in 2015, DTAC has recorded substantial progress, including an increase in the number of recipient countries as well as resuscitation of the TAC scheme where it has been moribund in the ACP (Africa Caribbean and Pacific) regions. “There has also been a significant increase in the deployment of volunteers and improvement in the socio-economic development of these countries,” he said. The DTAC was established to among others, share Nigeria’s know-how and expertise with other African, Caribbean and Pacific countries. It gives assistance on the basis of the assessed and perceived needs of the recipient countries and helps to promote cooperation and understanding between Nigeria and the recipient countries. Onyema also disclosed that the ministry has repatriated many stranded Nigerians in collaboration with the International Organization for Migration (IOM). According to him, the situation was common in Libya, Mali, Sudan, Cote d’Ivoire and Senegal, among others, where there were increased rate of victims of human trafficking, particularly girls. He said that a sizable number of Nigerians have been repatriated home in a humane manner, adding that the Ministry evacuated over a hundred citizens stranded in Russia after the 2018 World Cup. He also disclosed that the ministry facilitated the evacuation of a total number of 1,531 Nigerians from Ukraine to Nigeria, adding that a large number were recently evacuated from India and the UAE.