WorldStage Newsonline– The Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), has urged states and universities to take part in the free trade zones scheme. Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, the managing director/CEO of NEPZA said on Friday in Abuja said all states in Nigeria have been asked to take part in the free trade zones scheme by applying through the Nigeria Processing Zones Authority. He dismissed claims by Akwa Ibom of having difficulty in obtaining a licence from NEPZA to establish a free trade zone, saying “I am not sure we have records of Akwa Ibom applying for any free zone licence and we are inviting them if they so desire to have a free zone. “This is because it is our desire to have a free zone in each state of the country regardless of who is the political head. “We are talking of the economy, we are talking of Nigeria and we are talking of Nigerians. Poverty does not know a party. “The president has been magnanimous, he has treated everybody equally under his economic agenda using the free zone scheme.’’ He said that NEPZA was already working with some states to ensure the establishment of trade zones in the states. “It is on record that we have been working very closely with every state that so desire. We are working with Delta and they are very happy with the free zone scheme under this regime. “We have been working very closely with Sokoto State and very soon we shall start implementing and Borno will soon start off their scheme. “It is also on record that Ekiti state has applied. “We have been to other states of the country and any state that is receptive to the economic agenda under the free zone scheme we are very happy to accommodate them. “We are inviting Akwa Ibom and we will be very happy to work with them if they desire to apply for a free zone scheme and we can assure them that the process will be very fast. “We are also very sure that the presidency will look at it passionately,’’ Adesugba said. Highlighting the economic benefits, Adesugba said that the free trade zones in Nigeria attracted 30 billion dollars investments. “Right now, we have investments of more than 25 billion dollars upward to 30 billion dollars if you put everything together under this scheme. “It is working, it works elsewhere and it is working for Nigeria and everybody is welcome to have the licence, we will consider it,’’ Adesugba said. According to him, there are more than 1,300 of such schemes spread over China and that is what China uses as a strategy to ensure that they develop. “That is why you see most Chinese groups here, very competitive. We want to do the same thing. “In Africa, we have only 240. Under the NEPZA scheme we have about 46 and I was looking at the number of free zones that are actually working, we have 30 of them that are actually working. “The president has just approved some spread over the states without looking at which state belongs to whom. “We are still encouraging states, private investors to consider utilising the scheme and we can assure you it works,’’ Adesugba said. UNIVERSITIES Adesugba who also urged universities in the country to take part in the free trade zones scheme said the move would encourage knowledge-based productive activities in tertiary institutions. According to Adesugba, plan is on-going to establish a free zone at the University of Abuja, Gwagwalada, and it will make the institution a mining centre in the country. “We are now talking about the University free zone, education free zone, technology free zone, knowledge free zones; and we are working very closely with the University of Abuja in that regard. “This is going to be one case that people are going to be very happy with. “The University of Abuja has applied to be a free zone. It’s going to be the first such education free zone. “It is 10 minutes to the airport, 20 minutes to the city centre, 11,800 hectares of land with all kinds of mineral resources, free rivers, so it is going to be a mine centre,” Adesugba  said. The NEPZA boss said that the authority would work with the university and the Abuja Chamber of Commerce to bring industries closer to the students. According to him, it would be a symbiotic relationship as the university would feed the industries, the industries would feed the university and research would be utilised and purpose based. He said, ”Interns and university students having access to knowledge based productive activities will also come into place; so it is going to be a fantastic thing. ”The best thing about the free zone is that the university lecturers and everybody within that community will have something to do. They will always have something to do. ”There will be warehouses for industries, hotels for conferences; the rivers will provide the terrain good enough for gulf. ”So we are going to have holidays and stuff in the university and it is going to be an amazing city. It’s a city within a city, it’s a dream”. Adesugba said that the university and the Chamber were pragmatic about the project,“ and NEPZA, being the government agency and regulator, is also very bullish towards realising the project’’. He said that establishing free trade zones in universities would address incessant strikes affecting tertiary institutions in the country. “We believe this is the way to go; maybe for once we won’t have strike within that place because we do not allow strikes within the free trade zones. “We will also ensure there is fairness, people will be appropriately paid, it is not just going to be lecturers asking for pays that the universities can’t afford. “University of Abuja is going to be the richest in Africa, by the time we finish with this concept we will be excited about it,’’ Adesugba said.