WorldStage Newsonline– The National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) has announced that it received and censored 340 movies produced by the Nigerian film industry in the fourth quarter of 2022, a 30.47% decrease in the number of movies produced from 489 in the third quarter. In a statement issued by Alhaji Adedayo Thomas, the Executive Director of NFVCB  said this, Thomas said, represents all films submitted to the board from across the country. “The report is for onward submission to the relevant Federal Government agency as an input for the compilation of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for the fourth quarter (Q4, 2022),” the statement said. “118 of the films came in from Abuja censorship centre of the board, representing the chunk of the movies produced during the period under review. “Followed by Lagos State with 115 movies as indicted in the report, Onitsha recorded 91, Kano nine and Benin four movies respectively.” The analysis by censorship location further shows that Jos recorded three films , while Port Harcourt, Ibadan, Bauchi and Abeokuta did not rake in any film for the period under review. “This clearly portrays the contribution of the film industry to economic growth in terms of direct and indirect jobs in the entire value chain in filmmaking. “Our cordial relationship with the recognised guilds and associations in the industry has played important role, as we urge them to ensure that their members submit their films for censorship and approval. “As a Federal Government agency committed to providing enabling environment for filmmakers, NFVCB will always ensure that uncensored and other unwholesome films do not find their way into the Nigeria market,” he added. NFVCB is a Federal Government body that regulates the films and video industry in Nigeria. The board is empowered by law to classify all films and videos whether imported or produced locally. It is also the duty of the board to register all films and videos outlet across the country and to keep a register of such registered outlets among other functions.