WorldStage Newsonline–  The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division Nigerian Army (NA), Maj.-Gen. Obinna Ajunwa, has assured residents of Lagos and Ogun states of adequate security during the general elections, slated for Saturday. In a statement signed by the Divison’s Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Lt.-Col. Olabisi Ayeni said that the Divison had deployed troops in Lagos and Ogun states to support the Nigerian Police, especially in the provision of security for Nigerians during the forthcoming elections. “Hence, residents in these states will experience deployment of large number of troops. “The general public should,  therefore, not be perturbed by this presence, but be free to carry out their civic responsibility without fear. “The troops are deployed to ensure their safety, the safety of INEC staff, ensure security of ballot materials and to serve as deterrence to unscrupulous elements with any negative intention,” he said. Ajunwa said that this was in compliance with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya’s directives. The GOC further encouraged troops to always remember the contents of the code of conduct and rules of engagement for Nigerian Army personnel during the elections. “I admonish troops to be very professional, cautious, respect fundamental human rights and remain apolitical. “Any personnel who may want to act otherwise and engage in activities that can bring the name of the NA to disrepute, will be strictly sanctioned according to the provision of the Armed Forces Act,” he said. Ajunwa also warned compromised politicians and political hoodlums to desist from any forms of election malpractices and violence as the Division will not condone any form of irresponsibility and lawlessness. He encouraged law abiding citizens to feel free to carry out their civic responsibility, while assuring them of their safety during and after the elections. “Troops of the division in collaboration with other security agencies have conducted “Shows of Force” on the Mainland and Island in Lagos State as well as in Ogun State. “This is to deter criminals from having freedom of actions to organise their undemocratic plans. “Troops have also conducted raids to criminal hideouts in these states where criminals of different shades have been arrested,” the GOC said.