Thousands of youths on Friday drummed support for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, calling on Lagos residents to vote for them in the forthcoming elections. The youths during a walk, which lasted for about three hours from Itire and terminated with a rally at Palm Avenue in the Mushin area of Lagos State, urged eligible voters to vote for all APC candidates for good governance at federal, state, and local governments. The youths during a ‘Great Mushin Youth Mega Rally’, convened by Permanent Board Member at Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Mr. Owolabi Falana appealed to residents to vote for Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu, APC senatorial candidates for Lagos West, Dr. Oluranti Adebule and all APC House of Representatives and Lagos State House of Assembly candidates in Mushin. The APC candidates in Mushin are Hon. Adeyemi Alli and Hon. Toyin Fayinka for Mushin I and Mushin II Federal Constituencies respectively and Hon. Nureni Akinsanya and Hon. Yinka Kazeem Esho for Mushin I and Mushin II State Constituencies. Fayinka, Esho, Falana, and other APC chieftains while speaking during the walk and rally attended by a large crowd of Mushin residents, urged people to come out en masse to vote for Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu, and other APC candidates, especially in Lagos West Senatorial District, Mushin I and II constituencies. Fayinka, a former Special Adviser to Governor Sanwo-Olu, urged people not to allow anybody to discourage them from voting for APC based on the present situation in the country concerning the naira and fuel scarcity. The APC House of Representatives candidate urged Nigerians to give the ruling party to continue the good work they are doing at the federal and state level by voting for all the APC candidates. “APC is a progressive party. They are ready to write some wrongs. People should trust us and they should allow us to continue the good work we are doing as the ruling party at the federal and state governments,” he said. Commending the youths for coming out in their thousands to drum support for him and other candidates of the party, Esho said APC is a performing party and urged the voters to vote for Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu, and other APC candidates in the forthcoming general elections. “We have been in government for the past eight years and we are performing at the federal, Lagos State, and Mushin. Our governor is performing in Lagos State. So, we are telling the people of Lagos to continue to vote for APC. We are well prepared for the election and you can see from the crowd. Mushin is APC and the youths of APC are for APC,” he said. Falana urged people to vote massively for Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu, and all APC candidates because Mushin since the beginning of the current Fourth Republic in 1999 has always been having it good under the ruling party. He said: “As you are aware, Mushin is the second largest populated local government in Lagos State and we always come up with large numbers of votes. We have a large concentration of young people in Lagos State and we want to contribute our quota toward the advancement of our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). “We are embarking on this walk and rally to let people know that our youths are not just on social media, our youths are on the ground; we are voters and we have PVCs. We are committed to APC and committed to the ideal of our party. We are in support of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Dr. Idiat Adebule, all our House of Representatives and House of Assembly candidates.