Ms Obiageli Okafor, fintech entrepreneur has created a platform – tech4eons to build the capacity of Nigerian youths in Information Technology (IT). Okafor, a young woman making a mark in the fintech industry told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the gesture was to make Nigerian youths irresistible in the labour market. The self-taught techie, who started her journey into the space at the age of 16, said her passion for technology and her drive to create innovative solutions led her to be part of the development of several successful tech products. She said that her dedication and hard work did not go unnoticed, as she was offered a job at a leading fintech company in Dubai, Tafabot. She said that part of her role as a product manager at the Dubai-based company, was the development and management of the cutting-edge fintech product. “I created a platform for young Nigerians to express themselves. Being at the forefront of the entire rave about tech careers. “I found a distinct reoccurring problem involving Nigerian youths which is the lack of clarity when trying to get into the tech space. “Most Nigerians think they have to be a master at coding to succeed in the IT space but there are on demand non-tech code roles. “I have been informally guiding people to make their career into tech using transferable skills from their previous jobs as well as school.’’ Okafor said she decided to make it official by creating a platform known as tech4eons to see to it that 12 people a month were guided into the tech industry. This, she said was by organising courses and landing internships. The 25-year-old advised youths to invest in training and education in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) to build their employability skills. “This will increase their chances of finding well-paying jobs and contribute to the development of the country. “I also encouraged them to be proactive, be a problem solver ,network and build healthy relationships with people within the industry,’’ she said. Okafor said as a firm believer of IT growth in Nigeria,  said that to improve technology usage in Nigeria several key steps needed to be taken. She called on the government to provide incentives for tech companies to set up operations in Nigeria, as well as invest in improving the country’s infrastructure to support the growth of the tech industry. She said that improving access to education, skills and training especially in technology and computer science would help increase the number of skilled workers in the country. Okafor said that encouraging investment in technology startups and small businesses through initiatives like venture capital funds and incubators would help to drive innovation and entrepreneurship in the tech sector. She also called for improved internet access by increasing the availability and affordability of high-speed internet access to bridge the digital divide and support the growth of the tech industry. She said that encouraging collaboration and partnerships between tech companies, universities, and research institutions would help to drive innovation and knowledge-sharing in the sector. According to her, by taking these steps, Nigeria can build a strong foundation for technology innovation and usage, and position itself as a leader in the tech industry in Africa.