WorldStage Newsonline– Former Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Alani Akinrinade (Rtd) has taken a swipe at former President Olusegun Obasanjo over his comments and actions on the on-going collation of the presidential election’s results. Describing Obasanjo as an interloper, Akinrinade in a statement called on Nigerians and those who care about the unity of the country to condemn the former president’s statement in the strongest term. According to Akinrinade, Obasanjo’s statement coming at a time the Independent National Electoral Commission is busy with the conduct and release of the elections results is both unfortunate and a glaring and calculative attempt to game the system. “Without any shred of evidence a former president is challenging the integrity of a national election and calling a seating president to truncate it midway,” Akinrinade lamented. He said he found it most disturbing and objectionable that a former General and president as Obasanjo would introduce such a diatribe into the body politics at such a delicate time as this, more so that the former president had fought for the unity of the country and witnessed the many twists and turns of her democratic development. Expressing certainty that Nigeria was on the right path, Akinrinade said Obasanjo not being neutral meant his intervention fell short of patriotism but only fit perfectly into meddling in the affairs of state that was already the constitutional responsibility of INEC. The former COAS called on President Muhammadu Buhari  to ignore Obasanjo’s recent interruptions and focus on supporting the lawful institution to do its job by allowing the process to run its full course. Akinrinade stated: “The President Buhari I know will let the process run its full course and will not intervene in an undemocratic manner to truncate the ongoing political process. Luckily President Buhari is made of finer and more principled democratic stuff. He will not allow Obasanjo lure him into tainting his democratic credentials in this regard. “I recall that in his last trip to the United States, President Joe Biden praised Buhari’s commitment to democratic values and principles. Obasanjo has no such record to be applauded.” Akinrinade recalled that the world has not forgotten his fraudulent and undemocratic attempt at a third term agenda in violation of the letter and spirit of the Nigerian constitution. He also recalled that Obasanjo having conducted the worst election in the history of Nigeria in 2007 after his botched third term bid, the beneficiary of the election heist, the late President Umaru Yar’Adua openly admitted that his presidency was a product of a fraudulent election but that he was committed to reforming the electoral process. Akinrinade affirmed that Nigerians have voted and that their votes had counted but that no one should disrupt the process.