Residents of Badagry, Lagos, on Saturday turned out en masse at 8:00 a.m at different polling units to cast their votes in the presidential election. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that eligible voters in the ancient town besieged different units with the presence of security operatives at every polling units. NAN also reports that officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) arrived with the election materials at different polling units at 8:00 a.m. Accreditation and voting started at exactly 9:00 a.m at St Leo’s Catholic Primary School, Ikoga, polling unit 04. Mr Joseph Adubi, the Presiding Officer, told NAN that the electorate were peaceful and cooperating with officials. At Ward C, polling unit 06, of Prince Sesi Whingah, the House of Representatives candidate of APC, there was massive turn out of voters but they had issues with the password for BVAS machines. After voting at his polling unit, Whingah commended the security personnel for peaceful conduct of the election. NAN reports that these challenges kept voters stranded for one hour until they sent the password from the INEC and voting started immediately. Mr Abdulsalam Ashade, the Coordinator, National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), said that the election officials came later and voting started around 9:00 a.m. According to Ashade, the BVAS machines worked effectively and voters were casting their votes without further hindrance. He confirmed that security personnel were at different point monitoring the exercise. At L.A primary school, Badagry, polling Unit 011, Awhajigoh Ward, the poling unit of Chief Sunny Ajose, the former Deputy Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Lagos State, started accreditation and voting at 8:45 a.m. Speaking, Ajose commended the election officials and the security personnel for arriving earlier at the unit. He said the exercise was peaceful as voters who arrived in time, cast their vote immediately and left. He said that information reaching him from other polling unit in the area especially Sème axis, was also peaceful and commendable. NAN reports that voting was still going on at different wards in Badagry as at the time of this report.