Governor Dapo Abiodun raising the hand of the APC Senatorial candidate for Ogun East, Otunba Gbenga Daniel. The duo were flanked by the husband of the state deputy governor, Alhaji Oyedele (left), deputy governor Noimot Salako-Oyedele (second left) and the House of Reps candidate, Femi Ogubanwo (right) Ogun State Government has upgraded its College of Health Technology in Ilese-Ijebu to a polytechnic, and would henceforth be known as; Ogun State Polytechnic of Health and Allied Sciences. With a promise to appoint a substantive rector for the institution soon, the state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, made the pronouncement on Wednesday, during his re-election campaign tour of Ijebu North East Local Government. Governor Abiodun said upgrading the institution has become imperative because of plans to reposition the school and expand its curriculum. During his engagement with the students, Abiodun emphasised that he has only done what the law empowered him to do, as he is the only one that can make such a pronouncement, noting that other governorship candidates are full of empty boasts. The governor also promised that his administration would continue to support the development of education in the state while assuring the students that those yet to receive thier bursary would get it soon. Making the pronouncement, the governor said; “I, Prince Adedapo Abiodun, the Governor of Ogun State, hereby pronounce that this institution, formerly called Ogun State College of Health Technology, is hereby renamed Ogun State Polytechnic of Health and Allied Sciences. “This institution will now begin to occupy its pride of place among the comity of polytechnics in the country. I want to congratulate you on this elevation, and I want to assure you that very soon, you will have a substantive rector. “I am making that pronouncement today, the 15th of February, 2023. I am the only one that can come here and make such an announcement;  others can only come here and make empty promises,” he said. The APC flag bearer further noted that his administration would continue to cater for the welfare of students in the state, assuring that his administration will begin immediate repairs on the internal roads of the institution. He said: “I want to apologise for the deplorable condition of this road, but as you can see, work has started on the road, I have re-awarded that contract to a reputable contractor and very very soon, you will see this road wearing a good look. “I am also aware of the situation of your internal roads, I have instructed the Commissioner for Works to come here immediately, within the next one week and begin to work on your internal roads”, he said.