WorldStage Newsonline– Despite well-known and possible preventable risk factors, 64% of Nigerian children between the ages of 12 and 23 months are at risk of battling underlying health diseases, due to low immunization coverage, stirring vaccine-preventable diseases. According to the 2021 Nigeria Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS), and National Immunization Converge survey (NICS), 18% of children 12-23 months old did not receive any vaccinations. This is a relative decrease of 55% from 5 years ago. The benefit of immunization is fully realized when children receive all recommended immunization does in a timely manner,  but the MICS report shows that only 36% of children aged 12-23 months received all recommended vaccines in Nigeria, 46% were partially vaccinated, while 18% of children did not receive any form of vaccines. Immunization is a proven tool for eliminating life-threatening infectious diseases and is estimated to avert between 2m to 3m death each year. It’s one of the most effective health investments with proven strategies that make it accessible to even the most hard-to-reach and vulnerable populations. The 2021 MICS and NICS report carried by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), World Health Organisation, and other partners showed that to be fully vaccinated is when a child receives all 1YL antigens: BCG, OPV0, HepB0, OPV1-3, IPV, Penta1-3, PCV1-3, Yellow Fever, Meningitis A and MCV1. The MICS report showed an improvement in pentavalent vaccine intake for children. For instance, 57% of children received all three doses of the vaccine, while 21% of children that received the penta1 vaccine did not receive pent3 vaccine, this is according to the National immunization coverage survey brief. United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Chief of Measurement for Result (M4R), Claes Johanson who gave a breakdown of the MICS report during a Media Dialogue in Port Harcourt, in collaboration with the Child Right Bureau of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, said “the good news is that fewer children under five are dying, and more children under five are actually surviving than 5years ago, which is driven by an increase in immunization. “Immunization clearly is a primary factor, the fact that it use to be only 34% and now 57% are getting the full immunization, we know from experience this has a full effect on child mortality and is likely the most important explanation. “If the impact of women education is responsible for states with the smallest proportion of children who did not receive any vaccination in Enugu (1%) and Ebonyi (0%), when compared to Sokoto (51%), Kano (30%). “We also know Women education has a huge impact on immunization, it’s not only that, but it’s a large part of the explanation. “It’s also about the social economic situation the level of poverty of those families of those communities and about the availability of vaccines, also many things play into it but absolutely in those states, you see that all those things must have gone well and there was the investment and the mothers who knew about this and also take the children for vaccination. “A serious concern is that there are more unvaccinated children in the North region compared to other regions in Nigeria. The highest percentage of unvaccinated children is recorded in Sokoto state (51%), while the smallest proportions of children who did not receive any vaccinations are found in Enugu (1%) and Ebonyi (0%).” The report also disclosed that Sokoto (43%), of the children population of 12-23 months are partially vaccinated, and 6% are fully vaccinated. In Kano state, 30% of Children between 12-23 months of age did not receive any vaccines, while 23% received full vaccination; also in Zamfara 23% children recorded zero doses of vaccine, 10% were fully vaccinated. In Katsina State, 29% of children had zero vaccine intake, while 18% of children were fully vaccinated, and in Jigawa state 25% of children did not receive any form of vaccination except for 37% that were fully vaccinated.  According to the MICS only 25% of those in the North West received all doses of immunization. According to the survey, among the reason children are not fully vaccinated in the North West; is that 43% said lack of knowledge or awareness, 38% had mistrust and fear while 14% had no faith in immunization, 13% claimed it was service delivery issues, 19% note that it was lack of time and family related issues and 8% blames distance of immunization site. At the recently held 39th meeting of  Expert Review Committee (ERC), on polio eradication, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dir. Faisal Shuaib, said Nigeria recorded 90% drop in cases of Circulating Vaccine-derived poliovirus type 2 (cVPV2). The meeting aimed to achieve solidarity and collaboration that lead to the eradication of the wild poliovirus in Nigeria is sustained. “We have worked with multiple donors and partners to achieve what we have been able to do in the last 6 years, in terms of maintaining zero wild poliovirus transmission,” Shuaib said. “In the last few years, we had circulating variant polio virus in some states due to low routine immunization coverage in those states.  We have seen that we have done a great job of reducing the number of those cases by almost 90%, that is a huge effort but we want to get down to zero cases of this cVPV2 like they are called. “Today as we have engagement with our partners we want to finalize to fine-tune those plans that will ensure that by the end of 2023 we would have completely eradicate every single form of polio whether it’s circulating variant or wide polio virus that we spent 6years without. We are not completely free of polio until every single type of polio is eradicated in Nigeria. “We have seen a situation because of integration between immunization and polio campaigns we are doing a better job of reaching more kids.” In ensuring lifelong protection from vaccine-preventable diseases, Dir. Shuaib advises parents and guardian should not to wait until the health team comes to their house, “On a regular basis those schedules are available, parents are supposed to take their kids to the health facilities close to their homes and offer them the routine immunization vaccines. These vaccines provide lifelong protection from vaccine preventable diseases. “We are going to be working very hard to make sure we increase information and educate the populace around how important the vaccinations are, we are working with traditional leaders, religious leaders, community-based association but then very importantly is the media to make sure that people are aware of the importance of this vaccination, it is only when they are aware that people take action, but beyond taking action they are able to differ information that is correct and information that is clearly disinformation.”