WorldStage Newsonline– From the results of the last Saturday presidential poll released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) so far, former governor of Lagos State, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is currently ahead of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the People Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Peter Obi of Labour Party (LP) and Alhaji Rabiu Kwankaso the New Nigerian People Party (NNPP). While Tinubu has polled a total of 7,597,258, Atiku, Obi and Kwankaso have polled 5,799,879; 3,367,202 and 1,582,067 respectively out of the 26 states whose results have been collated and declared by INEC. WorldStage gathered that among the three leading presidential candidates, Tinubu has so far won in only eight states while Atiku won in 11 and Obi won in 6 including the federal capital Abuja and another three waiting for INEC confirmation. Though the candidate of NNPP, Rabiu Kwankaso garnered comparatively sizable votes of 1.3 million, he got about 90% of it from Kano, his state of origin, alone. From the statistics of the poll Tinubu secured 25% of the total valid votes cast in 24 of the 26 states, thereby serving as reason for the lead in spite of scoring the most of votes in the least number of states when compared to Atiku and Obi’s state spread but not in the spread of the required minimum percentage score across the country. As at the time of writing this report, Tinubu has won in Ekiti, Ondo, Oyo, Ogun, Kwara, Jigawa, Niger and Zamfara (8 states); Atiku in Adamawa, Yobe, Gombe, Osun, Katsina, Kebbi, Bayelsa, Kaduna, Sokoto, Bauchi and Akwa Ibom (11 states); Obi in Lagos, Enugu, Abia, Edo, Plateau, Nasarawa and FCT (11 states and Federal Capital Territory). But Kwankaso won only in Kano State with 997,279 votes, a score the dwarfs combined votes of some five states put together. Where Tinubu didn’t lead he would almost be at par with the winner, or would have secured 25% of total valid votes cast in such states, except in south eastern states where he failed abysmally to meet the 25% requirement. Tinubu is leading by about 1.8 million and has met 25% in 24 states while Atiku on the other hand has met 25% in 16 states in a race to meet the 25% in 24 states requirement. Obi’s chance of meeting the 25% requirement in 24 states has vanished, having met the condition only in eight states with 10 states to go.