…Says those who wanted to take advantage of naira swap hardship are shamed The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has said if elected into office he will ensure revival of the  Ajaokuta Steel Complex in Kogi State, in addition to other critical projects. Speaking at the APC campaign rally in Lokoja, the capital of Kogi State, on  Wednesday, Asiwaju Tinubu said his government would prioritize development of mineral resources in the North Central state, in addition to dredging the River Niger which will allow ships to berth in inland ports. “Hope is here. Ajaokuta resuscitation will be done. Dredging of Niger River will be done. Agriculture will be the source of our prosperity. North Central has the potential for great mineral industrialization, we will work on that, ” he said. Tinubu also felicitated with the people of Kogi State and other Nigerians over the Supreme Court judgment on the currency swap impasse, saying those who wanted to take advantage of the situation have failed. The presidential candidate said members of the opposition were counting on the unintended suffering caused by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) policy to play to their advantage. The Supreme Court had in a unanimous judgment on Wednesday halted the February 10 deadline for the validity of the old higher denomination naira notes, pending hearing on the substantive suit filed by Kogi, Kaduna and Zamfara State governments. The case is adjourned to February 15. Tinubu lauded the mammoth crowd for turning up for the event in spite of the challenges, asking them to repeat the same on the day of election. He said the opposition wanted to take advantage of the people’s hardship. “They even rejoiced when you cannot sell your products,” he said. “You will never see hardship in your lives. You will see prosperity, you will see progress,” the APC candidate said to a thunderous amen from the crowd. “This your determination, I want you to multiply it. On the 25th of February, there will be vote for president, for senators and House of Representatives members, it is in your hands now. But we have come to remind you, whether by Keke NAPEP, or by bicycle or even with your legs, you should go here in the morning. Cast your vote, be vigilant. Do your part, play your own role.” Tinubu assured the electorate of the best deal when they elect him as president, promising to accomplish important projects that will foster development. “I guarantee you I know how to do it. I am smarter than their candidate. I am the front runner, the best candidate. I know the road. I am a man who knows how to develop wealth, a man who keeps promises.” In his remarks, Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello recalled that the state had a good showing for the APC during the 2019 poll, saying the performance will be surpassed this time around. Like Tinubu, Bello also lampooned members of the opposition parties who, he said, were counting on the “unbearable” situation created to reap support at the polls. “We have seen clearly between light and darkness. Some few elements decided to make life unbearable so that our party will be affected. “Our leader made his stance clear to the whole country. He showed that he is with the people. Some people decided to make a political capital out of it.” He described the cashless policy as “a good policy which some people want to turn around to inflict hardship on our people”. Governor Bello said with the Supreme Court order, “hope has been renewed. Go ahead and use your money, the old and the new Naira.” The rally was attended by the APC Vice Presidential Candidate Senator Kashim Shettima,  APC Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Abubakar Kyari, Governors Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (Kwara), Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger) and Mohammed Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa). Others were the APC National Women Leader, Dr Betta Edu; Secretary of the Presidential Campaign Council, Hon James Faleke; former Bauchi State Governor MA Abubakar, among others.