WorldStage Newsonline– The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has deployed over 200,000 corps members as ad-hoc staff for the 2023 general election. NYSC’ Director General, Brigadier General Yushau Dogara Ahmed however warned corps members not to accept gifts from politicians or food from anybody. He said the NYSC had also established a 24 hours 6972 distress call centres for the election period at the headquarters, for corps members to get across anywhere they are in the case of any difficulties. He said, those participating in the election had been trained, some of them were trained outside the camp and those who just passed out were trained by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials in the camp, adding that proper training and guidelines had been given to them, and they had been well informed and ready to give their best. “And we expect nothing short out of the professional conduct in the exercise of this all important assignment. We have told the corps members that apart from the guiding rules of NYSC Do’s and Don’ts, they must also abide by the guiding rules and regulations established by INEC, and they have been sensitized and aware of what they are supposed to do and not to do.” On the security of corps members, Ahmed, said the youth service corps had met with security agencies to ensure that corps members are secured, from where they will be picked and to the respective places of their ad-hoc duties. He said, “We were assured by INEC, that they will carry this corps members to their respective places of assignment, and they promise that they will bring them back safely to where they have taken them from and ensure they are back safely.” On welfare of Corps members, he said  INEC had promised to take care of them, not only their security, but wherever they will be taken to, from were they will sleep before moving to their respective places of duty. He warned corps members to be careful of any environment they find themselves, and not accept any gift from any politician, and food from anybody. “We do not expect corps members to accept any form of gratification, all we are asking them to go and do is to do their duties as expected of them and leave. And whenever they leave the place of their duties they should be within their lodges because part of our discussion with the Inspector General of Police and the DSS, this places will be taken into consideration in terms of security”, he said.