The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) on Sunday announced alternative routes for motorists ahead of Tuesday’s presidential campaign rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In a statement issued by its General Manager, Mr Bolaji Oreagba, LASTMA pleaded for the cooperation of all road users and apologised for inconveniences that might ensue. “As a result of the rally slated for Feb. 21, there will be a procession of APC presidential candidate, party stalwarts, party faithful and supporters from the local airport to stadium through Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way. “There will also be procession from Maryland, Ikorodu Road, Idi-Iroko, Anthony, Obanikoro, Onipanu, Fadeyi, Jibowu, Empire, Moshalashi, Ojuelegba, Barracks and Stadium. “Motorists are advised to make use of the listed alternative routes during the procession. “Motorists coming from the local airport to Maryland should use Kodesoh, Obafemi Awolowo Way, Kudirat Abiola Way which is Old Oregun Road, Ojota, Maryland and connect with destination,’’ he stated. The general manager advised motorists coming from the local airport to Ketu Mile 12 to use Kodesoh, Obafemi Awolowo Way, Secretariat Road, Mobolaji Johnson Avenue, 7-Up, Ojota Interchange, Ketu and connect with destination. “While the procession holds on the main carriage way on Ikorodu Road, the service lane will be available for use by motorists without any hassle. “In order to reduce inconveniences and travel time before and during the procession and rally, motorists can make use of the following routes. “Ikorodu to Lagos, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway to Lagos-Oshodi should use old toll gate, Alapere, Ogudu, Iyana Oworo, Third Mainland Bridge and connect destination. “Apapa-Oshodi Expressway to Lagos should use Oshodi Bridge, Anthony Bridge, Gbagada, Iyana Oworo, Third Mainland Bridge to connect destination,’’ he stated. Oreagba added also that motorists from Ojuelegba to Surulere should use Lawanson-Itire Road, Ogunlana Drive, Akerele, Shitta Roundabout, Adeniran Ogunsaya, Bode Thomas, Masha, Adelabu, Census, and Babs Animashaun. “They can also use Bode Thomas or Doyin to Eric Moore to Abebe Village to Costain and connect destination. “Those going from Costain to Surulere can use Costain to Iponri to Iponri Estate to Bode Thomas and connect destination.’’ He added that there would be security personnel deployed along the routes to reduce inconveniences, travel time and to ensure safety and security of all road users. Oreagba also advised all party faithful and supporters attending the rally to make use of the following alternative routes to the venue, Teslim Balogun Stadium. “Third Mainland Bridge to Adeniji Adele Interchange to Carter Bridge to Ijora Olopa by LAWMA Headquarters to Eko Bridge to Alaka to Stadium should be used. “From Agege Motor Road, use Jibowu to Herbert Macaulay Way to Adekunle to Third Mainland Bridge to Adeniji Adele Interchange to Carter Bridge to Ijora Olopa by LAWMA Headquarters to Eko Bridge to Alaka to Stadium. “From Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, use Orile to Iganmu Bridge to Costain to Iponri to Alaka to Stadium. “Designated car parks at the stadium are available to promote orderliness and free flow of human and vehicular traffic,’’ he stated.