WorldStage Newsnline– Mr Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Works and Housing, has assured that the country will witness massive infrastructural development if the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Den. Bola Tinubu, is elected. Fashola, who is also the Director of the Election Planning and Monitoring Directorate of APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), gave the assurance on Tuesday in Abuja. Fashola spoke at a strategic pre-election engagement with some members of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Yoruba Community for Tinubu. The minister said the infrastructure development report card of the APC-led administration in the last eight years is self-evident and a fulfilment of the promises made by the party to Nigerians in 2015 and 2019. Fashola noted that the President Muhammadu Buhari/APC-led administration changed the face of the entire FCT and the nation in spite of a global economic downturn compared with the 16 years of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “The country stands to witness a more robust and well co-ordinated infrastructural development in line with the renewed hope agenda of our presidential candidate, Sen. BolaTinubu. “Our scorecard in the last eight years or there about is self-evident of a promise made, promise kept, and this is a virtue that set Tinubu ahead of the pack,” he said. Fashola urged leaders and members of the Yoruba community in the FCT to vote en masse for the APC presidential candidate, come Feb. 25. According to him, Tinubu’s antecedents as a former two-term governor in Lagos State remain a barometer for measuring good governance in the country. He also charged the people to go out of the wards in the six Area Council of the FCT to educate electorate, especially the younger ones to vote for Tinubu. This, he said, is critical for the continuity of the laudable and people-centred projects and programmes of the APC-led administration. The convener of the programme and representative of FCT Yoruba Women, Ms Simi Fajemirokun, charged members of the community to go all out and vote for Tinubu and Sen. Kashim Shettima, his running mate. “The Yoruba vote is very important. We have a Yoruba candidate who is Tinubu, it is important to show our strength as a community, as a people, and as a tribe. “It is a huge opportunity and it is important to shore up our strength. The Yorubas operate as a community and we are going out with our families to vote. “We are not an individualistic tribe, based on our culture, we are going to go out to vote for our candidate. “Being the second largest tribe in the FCT after the Hausas, we are going to ensure we deliver the Tinubu-Shettima ticket on Saturday,” she said. Mr Adedayo Benjamin-Laniyi, APC Senatorial aspirant for FCT, and Director of NGOs APC PCC for FCT, stressed the need for Nigerians to rise above sentiments to work for victory at the poll for Tinubu. According to him, Tinubu and Shetima represent dedication and will work for the common goal of all Nigerians in an uncommon way. “The task at hand in the FCT is to deliver the Tinubu/Shetima candidacy. Tinubu is the Yoruba agenda in FCT. “There is no other message today than for God to direct the Yoruba agenda,” he said.