Ecobank Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), has rewarded four customers, being winners in the Super Rewards deposit promo ,with N1 million each. The Super Rewards Campaign is a customer-focused initiative designed by Ecobank Nigeria to reward customers’ loyalty and consistent use of the bank’s electronic payment platforms. This edition of Super Reward campaign, tagged, ‘Season 3.1,’ rewarded 100 customers monthly since November, 2022 with cash prizes of N50,000, while four customers won N1 million each at the end of the three-month campaign which ran between November 2022 to January 2023. The four winners are Mr John Sokeipiriala, Ahmed Said, Onashile Obafemi, and a couple with a joint account, Mr David Edokwe and Mrs Ifeoma Edokwe. Speaking at the cheque presentation in Lagos, Head, Consumer Banking, Ecobank Nigeria, Mrs Korede Adeniyi, said the scheme was introduced by the bank to reward customers’ loyalty, adding that it was also to promote the use of its electronic payment channels that offered convenient banking. According to her, “This is the third edition of our reward initiative which started about two years ago. The feedback from our customers have been quite impressive. It is not just to encourage people to save but also transact on our digital channels.  Today, you and I know that with the cash scarcity, the digital banking channels have become very helpful. So today, we’re rewarding four customers who won N4m. We have also rewarded 100 customers with cash prizes of N50,000 monthly during the period of the campaign.” Commenting on the dynamics of the scheme, Head, Asset Products, Ecobank Nigeria, Daberechi Effiong, said the conditions to qualify for the scheme were made simple and easy to ensure both new and existing customers of the bank participate and get rewarded. According to her, “new customers were expected to open an account with a minimum of N5,000 and maintain the deposit for a 30-day period”. “Same applies to existing customers, who only need to fund their active account with a minimum of N5,000 or reactivate their dormant account with a minimum of N5,000 and maintain the deposit for a 30-day period.” One of the joint account winners, Ifeoma Ezokwe, said she and her husband did not expect they would win a promo from the bank. She said, “When we got married, we decided that joint account is one of the things we’re going to inculcate into the marriage, and we’ve been operating the accounts very well. For more than 12 or 13 years we’ve been running the joint account”. “When they called us for this, we felt, this was just beyond our expectation. We were just running the account normally as a business transaction. So, this is what we get as a reward for running the account very well, and I’m very happy. We want to say thank you to Ecobank, they’ve been with us for a long time.” The presentations was witnessed by officials from Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) and National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC) who also applauded the transparency of the exercise.