Police Command in Kwara have paraded a 36 year-old medical doctor, Abass Adeyemi, over an alleged killing of four person’s in the state. The Commissioner of Police in the state, CP Paul Odama, disclosed this while addressing newsmen on Monday at the headquarters of the command in Ilorin. He said one of the victims, Olanipekun Ifeoluwa, who was reported missing at F Division was the same young lady who was allegedly killed and thrown into the bush at Alapa in Asa local government area of the state by the suspect. The CP said investigation into the case revealed that the suspect was last seen with the deceased Ifeoluwa. According to him, the circumstances surrounding the missing Ifeoluwa at Tanke and her being found dead at Alapa necessitated heightened suspicion that the suspect knew something about the missing lady. “While the command was searching for the doctor, news filtered in that the Police Command in Edo had arrested Dr Abbas Adeyemi in connection with another case of killing. “The command in an effort to get to the root of the serial murder case in Kwara state succeeded in getting him released from Edo to the kwara state command to help in the investigation. “Adeyemi confessed to have killed Ifeoluwa on June 24, 2022 by hitting her with an object on the head and dumped the body at a bush in Alapa. “He also confessed to have earlier sedated and causing the kidnap and killing of one Abubakar Malam Abubakar and killing of one Nafisat Halidu, a casual worker at General Hospital both in Kaiama. The suspect, according to the Commissioner, said that he concealed her body in a trash, filled the trash-can with cement and kept inside a locked store in the General Hospital Kaiama with the key in his procession. “He also confessed to the killing of one unknown lady buried inside the same general hospital store. “Both bodies were exhumed, recovered and deposited at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital,” the CP said. The police boss said the suspect (Adeyemi) confessed further to having been lured into organ harvesting by a yet-to-be-identified syndicate. He added that a discreet investigation was still in progress to unravel other killings perpetrated by the suspect and his syndicate. He said that exhibits recovered from him is a Toyota Camry with registration NO.: WSN 494 AA which belonged to Ifeoluwa, one black and one pink female handbag. Others are one Infinix phone, one female wig, one techno phone, black veil and one female pant and industrial waste bin. The CP said that Adeyemi would soon be charged to court.