…Mobilizes votes for Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu, other APC candidates Lagos State First Lady, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday held the third sensitization parley with women drawn from various professional organizations and groups in the state, saying it was important for all stakeholders to get fully involved in the forthcoming general elections. Speaking at the event which was held at Lagos House, Marina, the First Lady said the parley became imperative in view of the need to sensitize female stakeholders on matters arising regarding the 2023 general elections, particularly on the proper usage of the Permanent Voters Card and the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BIVAS). According to her, “As explained by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), BIVAS is a technology that integrates the three-stage voting process. “It is an integrated device that is multifunctional in nature, which serves as Voter Enrolment Device (IVED) during voter registration, voter accreditation on Election Day and also functions as INEC Results Viewing Device (IReV Device) to be used for election results upload on Election Day.” She added that the initiative of the parley was also aimed at providing a platform for interaction between candidates and the people, thus paving the way for mutual understanding which was essential to drive inclusive growth and well-rounded development. “It is in our best interest for every stakeholder to get involved in the electioneering process. We must not only vote but vote properly to avoid void votes, and also ensure that our votes count.  As women, we also have a duty to mobilize people to vote and vote wisely. “For us in Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is our Presidential candidate; Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, and all APC candidates for Senate, House of Representatives, and House of Assembly elections are our candidates. “Asiwaju Tinubu has a track record of excellent performance in Lagos State and this will be replicated across the country when he is elected. Also, it is not in doubt that Governor Sanwo-Olu has worked towards a greater Lagos of our dreams, and will be doing more to consolidate on the achievements of the last four years when re-elected by the grace of God and the support of the people,” the First Lady said. Besides, Sanwo-Olu appealed to all stakeholders to avoid hate speech that can set the country on fire, and also spread the message against utterances that can trigger violence, adding that all hands must be on deck to achieve a peaceful electioneering process. At the parley, there were various presentations on the role of women in the electoral process facilitated by former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Princess Sarah Sosan; former Head of Service, Mrs. Olabowale Ademola; Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms Abisola Olusanya; and Chairman, Lagos State Health Service Commission, Dr. Atinuke Onayiga. There were also presentations by the Member, House of Representatives representing Ikorodu Federal Constituency, Hon Babajimi Benson; Member, House of Representatives representing Eti-Osa, Hon Babajide Obanikoro; and the Candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) for Lagos Island Constituency 1, Princess Lara Oyekan Olumegbon. The professional women in attendance were drawn from the Director Generals/ General Managers of Government Agencies and Parastatals, Directors in the Public Service, Senior Special Assistants to the Lagos State Governor, Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO), National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), Radio, Television, Theatre and Arts Workers’ Union of Nigeria (RATTAWU), The Creatives, Hotels Owners and Managers Association Limited, Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport, Women In International Shipping & Trading Association (WISTA), Women In Logistics (WILAT), Women In Maritime in Africa, Female Architects of Nigeria, Nigerian Institute Of Architects, Women In Business & Management, BRT Female Drivers, The Nigerian Army Officers Wives Association (NAOWA), and the Police Officers Wives Association (POWA). Others are Civil Defence, Neighborhood Watch, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Federal Road Safety Wives Association, Wives of religious leaders, MFM Women’s Basketball, Anglican Bishop’s Wives, Women wing of Christian Association of Nigeria (WOMICAN), Morikaz Li Fuhum Wal- Moaniy, Nasfat Society Of Nigeria, The Criterion, Federation of Muslim Women Association In Nigeria, Nigeria Red Cross Society, Nigerian Girls Guide Association, Nigerian Civil Service Union, Graceful Ladies, Association of Senior Staff Civil Servants of Nigeria, Lagos Chapter, Eko Nigerian Society Of Physiotherapists, Women Association of Quantity Surveyors of Nigeria Forum, African Women Cultural Emancipation Initiative, National Council of Women’s Societies Nigeria, Orunsii Wellcare Foundation, Jumejilo, Aunt Landa ‘S Bethel Foundation, Women Rights and Health Project and Ceceyara Foundation.